Title: Synergizing Physically Constrained MCMC and Chemical-Informed Gaussian Processes for Reaction Network Discovery

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.23757v1

Published Time: Wed, 24 Jun 2026 00:12:04 GMT

Number of Pages: 15

Markdown Content:
# Synergizing Physically Constrained MCMC and Chemical-Informed Gaussian Processes for Reaction Network Discovery 

Runzhe Liu * 1 2 Zihao Wang * 3 Wenbo Yang 1 2 Shengyang Tao 1 2 

Code: github.com/Billy-Liu-DUT/pc-mcmc-cigp 

# Abstract 

Extracting interpretable governing equations from sparse, noisy chemical time-series data remains difficult because discrete reaction topology and continuous kinetic parameters are tightly coupled. We present PC-MCMC-CIGP, a reproducible gray-box workflow that combines spike-and-slab topology sampling, hard conservation and ther-modynamic screening, and a Chemical-Informed Gaussian Process (CIGP) residual model for pa-rameter calibration and experimental design. The methodological contribution is not a new MCMC or GP family in isolation; rather, it is the integra-tion of these components into a physically con-strained workflow with explicit uncertainty-aware acquisition choices. On the H2 + Br 2 benchmark, the constrained sampler distinguishes elementary radical pathways from deceptive phenomenolog-ical fits in our experiments. On styrene epoxida-tion, the CIGP optimization loop improves final yield by 12 .5% over the reported GP-BO base-line. A new 10-seed acquisition study shows that EI, GWU, PC-EI, uncertainty sampling, discrep-ancy hunting, and random search have different trade-offs: PC-EI substantially reduces low-yield BO suggestions, while EI-style criteria give the strongest final-yield performance. 

> *

Equal contribution 1State Key Laboratory of Fine Chemi-cals, Frontier Science Center for Smart Materials, Dalian Univer-sity of Technology, Dalian, 116024, China 2Dalian Key Labora-tory of Intelligent Chemistry, CR Belt and Road Joint Laboratory on Intelligent Chemistry and Advanced Materials of Liaoning Province, School of Chemistry, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, 116024, China 3Academy of Interdisciplinary Studies, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong. Correspondence to: Wenbo Yang 

<wbyang@dlut.edu.cn >, Shengyang Tao <taosy@dlut.edu.cn >.

Preprint. June 24, 2026. 

# 1. Introduction 

The discovery of governing equations from noisy time-series data remains a fundamental challenge in scientific machine learning (Brunton et al., 2016; Schmidt & Lipson, 2009; Champion et al., 2019). Although deep learning paradigms approximate continuous dynamics effectively, interpretabil-ity is often sacrificed for black-box interpolation (Cran-mer, 2023). In chemical kinetics, the primary objective is 

structure identification , defined as the reconstruction of the discrete reaction topology governing system evolution to recover a physically interpretable causal graph (Burnham et al., 2008; Jiang et al., 2022). Mechanism discovery is mathematically formulated as an ill-posed inverse problem characterized by the strong cou-pling between discrete structures and continuous kinetic con-stants (Walter & Pronzato, 1997; Davidescu & Jørgensen, 2008; Audoly et al., 2002). Conventional Bayesian infer-ence is frequently hindered by this interdependence. Stan-dard parameter estimation techniques lack explicit physical encoding (Williams & Rasmussen, 2006), whereas structure sampling is often impeded by vast combinatorial spaces and insufficient physical constraints, leading to mathemati-cally valid yet physically prohibited solutions (Enciso et al., 2021). To address these limitations, a unified physically constrained Bayesian framework is proposed to synergize discrete sam-pling on physical manifolds with chemically informed con-tinuous modeling (Brubaker et al., 2012). The problem is treated as the cooperative solution of structural inference and parameter estimation. A multi-physically constrained Spike-and-Slab Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sam-pler is introduced for structural identification. Constraints regarding mass conservation, electron conservation, and thermodynamic potential loops are encoded as boundary conditions to prune the posterior distribution and eliminate spurious mechanisms. For parameter estimation, a Chemical-Informed Gaussian Process (CIGP) is utilized to construct a hybrid gray-box model. The mechanism-based ordinary differential equa-tion is embedded as the prior mean function to capture 1

> arXiv:2606.23757v1 [cs.LG] 22 Jun 2026 PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery

dominant kinetic trends, while structural discrepancies are modeled via non-parametric kernels (Raissi et al., 2017; Chang & Zeng, 2023; Ma et al., 2020). Physical param-eters and kernel hyperparameters are jointly optimized to ensure robust estimation (Cross et al., 2024; Dalton et al., 2024). Additionally, physics-aware acquisition functions are developed to facilitate automatic experimental design. Figure effig:framework summarizes the two-stage work-flow: PC-MCMC first identifies a physically admissible reaction topology, and CIGP then uses the identified ODE model as a GP mean function during calibration and active learning. The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows: 1. A fixed-dimensional spike-and-slab MCMC workflow is formulated for candidate reaction selection, with mass, charge, and detailed-balance constraints used as hard admissibility checks. 2. A Chemical-Informed Gaussian Process calibration stage is used as a gray-box residual model, preserving the mechanistic ODE as the prior mean while modeling systematic discrepancy. 3. A reproducible active-learning benchmark is provided, including a 10-seed comparison of PC-EI, EI, GWU, discrepancy hunting, uncertainty sampling, and ran-dom search. 

# 2. Related Work 

2.1. Phenomenological versus Mechanistic Discovery 

Data-driven discovery of kinetic laws is commonly ap-proached through symbolic regression or sparse identifi-cation techniques(Brunton et al., 2016; Rudy et al., 2017; Schmidt & Lipson, 2009; Burlacu et al., 2020). Algorithms such as genetic programming and sparse regression can re-cover accurate macroscopic expressions from observational data, including fractional-order kinetics that arise in radical chain reactions(Cranmer, 2023; Otte, 2014). Their limi-tation for this work is that an accurate expression is not necessarily a reaction mechanism: a half-order rate law may fit HBr formation while leaving the elementary radical topology and hidden intermediates unidentified. 

2.2. Reaction-Network and Neural-ODE Models 

Reaction network reconstruction has also been formulated as deterministic superstructure selection using MINLP, flux-balance-style constraints, or hypergraph search(Langary & Nikoloski, 2019; Searson et al., 2007; Willis & von Stosch, 2016; Pal et al., 2025; Bonvin & Rippin, 1990). These meth-ods can encode stoichiometry explicitly, but they often pro-vide limited posterior uncertainty over alternative topologies. Recent neural ODE and chemical-reaction neural-network models improve flexible dynamics learning for kinetic sys-tems(Kim et al., 2021; Owoyele & Pal, 2021; Chang & Zeng, 2023). They are complementary to our objective: rather than learning an unconstrained neural vector field, PC-MCMC-CIGP assumes a candidate elementary-reaction set and estimates which reactions are active, so the output remains an interpretable subset of reaction steps. 

2.3. Probabilistic Modeling and Experimental Design 

Gaussian Processes (GPs) are widely used as proba-bilistic surrogates for calibration and Bayesian optimiza-tion(Williams & Rasmussen, 2006; Kocijan, 2016; Snoek et al., 2012; Shields et al., 2021). Standard GP-BO is effec-tive for yield maximization, but it usually treats the exper-iment as a black-box response surface. Physics-informed and hybrid GP models incorporate mechanistic structure into the mean or kernel(Kennedy & O’Hagan, 2001; Raissi et al., 2017; Ma et al., 2020; Cross et al., 2024). Our CIGP component follows this gray-box tradition. The novelty claimed here is therefore deliberately scoped: we provide a unified, physically constrained reaction-discovery and active-learning workflow, not a fundamentally new GP in-ference algorithm. 

# 3. The PC-MCMC-CIGP Framework 

3.1. Problem Formulation 

We consider a chemical system with Ns species and a pre-enumerated candidate set of Nr elementary reactions 

R = {Rj }Nr

> j=1

. This candidate set is assumed known; the unknowns are the binary activity vector γ ∈ { 0, 1}Nr , the active reaction graph G(γ), and kinetic parameters k. Let 

c(t) ∈ RNs 

> ≥0

denote concentrations and let S(G) ∈ ZNs×Nr

be the stoichiometric matrix whose j-th column is the net stoichiometric vector of reaction Rj and is masked by γj

during simulation. The mass-action dynamics are 

dc

dt = S(G) r c(t); k, γ, (1) where rj (c; k, γ) = γj kj

Q 

> i

cν− 

> ij
> i

for reactant stoichiomet-ric orders ν− 

> ij

. Reaction rates follow either Arrhenius param-eterization k = A exp( −Ea/RT ) or the detailed-balance parameterization described below(Horn & Jackson, 1972; Vlad & Ross, 2009). The mechanism-discovery data are sparse noisy trajectories 

D = {(tm, ym)}Mm=1 , where ym contains observed compo-nents of c(tm) under a Gaussian observation model. The active-learning stage uses a distinct notation: u ∈ U denotes controllable experimental conditions such as initial concen-2PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery  

> Figure 1. Overview of the proposed PC-MCMC-CIGP framework. The upper panel illustrates the physically constrained structure discovery stage, where candidate reaction networks are sampled using a Spike-and-Slab MCMC scheme subject to mass conservation and thermodynamic constraints. The lower panel depicts the Chemical-Informed Gaussian Process (CIGP), which embeds the discovered mechanistic ODE model as the GP mean function while modeling structural discrepancies non-parametrically. The unified framework enables simultaneous mechanism identification, parameter inference, and physics-aware active learning.

trations, temperature, and residence time, and y(u) denotes the scalar objective such as product yield. This separates state variables c(t) from design variables u.

3.2. Physically Constrained Topology Search 

To mitigate the combinatorial explosion inherent in reaction network discovery, we formulate a Bayesian variable selec-tion problem on a physically admissible manifold (Mitchell & Beauchamp, 1988; George & McCulloch, 1993). The existence of the j-th candidate reaction is controlled by a binary latent variable γj ∈ { 0, 1}.

Effective Rate Formulation. To ensure rigorous structural sparsity consistent with the governing kinetics, we define the effective rate constant as a masked variable: 

kef f j = γj · exp( θj ), (2) where θj is the auxiliary logarithmic kinetic parameter. This multiplicative formulation ensures that when a reaction is deactivated ( γj = 0 ), its contribution to the differential equations (Eq. 1) vanishes exactly ( kef f j ≡ 0), regardless of the value of θj .

Prior Specification. To induce strict sparsity, a Spike-and-Slab prior is imposed on the auxiliary parameter θj to regu-larize the search space: 

p(θj | γj ) = (1 − γj )N (θj ; 0 , ϵ 2) + γj N (θj ; μθ , σ 2 

> θ

), (3) where the spike component (approximated by a narrow Gaussian with ϵ → 0) constrains the auxiliary parame-ters of inactive pathways for identifiability, while the slab component captures the parameter uncertainty of active re-actions (Ishwaran & Rao, 2005; Piironen & Vehtari, 2017). Posterior inference over γ and θ is performed using a Metropolis–Hastings Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampler (Metropolis et al., 1953; Peskun, 1973; Girolami & Calderhead, 2011). 

Physical Constraints Enforcement. To eliminate math-ematically admissible but physically prohibited solutions, three classes of hard constraints are imposed via rejection sampling. 

Mass and electron conservation. Let A ∈ RNa×Ns denote the atomic composition matrix. A valid reaction j must satisfy 

A S ·j = 0, (4) ensuring strict conservation of atomic species and charge. 

Thermodynamic consistency. For each detected forward– reverse pair, detailed balance constrains the rate ratio through latent dimensionless chemical potentials μ:

ln kfwd 

krev 

= −

> Ns

X

> i=1

νij μi, (5) 3PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

where νij is the net stoichiometric coefficient of species 

i for the forward reaction. The potentials {μi} are in-ferred jointly with kinetic parameters under broad box pri-ors, which avoids requiring tabulated thermodynamic data for transient radicals. Candidate moves that violate mass, charge, rate bounds, or detailed-balance constraints are re-jected before likelihood evaluation. This rejection-based implementation is simple but may reduce acceptance rates as the number of reversible pairs grows; we report this as a limitation rather than assuming scalability is automatic. 

3.3. Chemical-Informed Gaussian Processes 

To decouple parameter estimation from numerical integra-tion error and systematic model mismatch, we adopt a hy-brid gray-box modeling strategy (Kristensen et al., 2004). Let u = [ c⊤ 

> 0

, T, t ]⊤ ∈ U denote the design vector compris-ing initial concentrations, temperature, and reaction time. The observation model decomposes the system response into a mechanistic component, a structural discrepancy term, and observation noise: 

y(u) = fphys (u; W) + gerr (u) + ϵ, (6) where fphys denotes the solution of the ODE system defined by the inferred reaction topology, gerr (·) is a zero-mean Gaussian Process with a radial basis function kernel, and 

ϵ ∼ N (0, σ 2

> n

I) represents i.i.d. measurement noise. 

Semi-Parametric Inference. The physical model is em-bedded as the mean function of the Gaussian Process. For a test design u∗, the predictive distribution is Gaussian with mean: μpred = fphys (u∗; W)+ k⊤∗ (K + σ2

> n

I)−1

 y − fphys (X; W).

(7) To ensure the physical interpretability of the hybrid model, we strictly control the complexity of the non-parametric component. The physical parameters W and GP hyperpa-rameters Θgp are jointly optimized by solving a constrained maximization problem: 

max 

> W,Θgp

log p(y | X, W, Θgp ) − λσ 2

> f

s.t. 0 < σ 2 

> f

≤ ϵtol ,

(8) where σ2 

> f

is the kernel signal variance. This formulation combines a soft sparsity penalty ( λ) with hard safety bounds (ϵtol ) (Hewing et al., 2019), compelling the Gaussian Pro-cess to capture only significant structural residuals that can-not be explained by the physical mechanism. 

3.4. Active Learning Strategy 

To guide autonomous experimental design, four physics-aware acquisition functions α(u) are constructed based on                

> Figure 2. Geometric intuition of physics-aware acquisition strate-gies. The landscape illustrates the sampling objectives of different acquisition functions α(u)over a noisy reaction yield curve. (1) GWU (Gradient-Weighted Uncertainty): Targets regions of maximal physical sensitivity (teal arrow, ∥∇ f∥2) to maximize in-formation gain about kinetic parameters, typically near the steepest gradient. (2) EI (Expected Improvement): Targets the global optimum (diamond marker) for direct yield maximization based on the predictive mean. (3) DH (Discrepancy Hunter): Iden-tifies regions of significant structural model mismatch (vertical lines, |μerr |) to correct systematic bias. (4) PC-EI (Physically Constrained EI): Restricts the search space to physically valid re-gions, where the infeasible domain (grey shaded area) is weighted by the soft feasibility gate σsigmoid .

the CIGP posterior. 

Expected Improvement (EI) is used as a baseline to bal-ance exploration and exploitation in a black-box optimiza-tion setting(Jones et al., 1998; Shahriari et al., 2015). 

Gradient-Weighted Uncertainty (GWU) prioritizes re-gions that are simultaneously uncertain and highly informa-tive for physical parameters: 

αGWU (u) = σpred (u) ∥∇ Wfphys (u; W)∥2 . (9) 

Discrepancy Hunter (DH). To actively refine the model’s validity, this strategy targets regions where the structural discrepancy is significant or uncertain. The acquisition score is defined as: 

αDH (u) = |μerr (u)| + βσ err (u), (10) where μerr and σerr are the posterior mean and standard deviation of the GP discrepancy term gerr . We set β = 1 .0

to equally prioritize the exploration of high-bias (mean) and high-variance regions. 

Physically Constrained EI (PC-EI). To prevent the op-timizer from exploiting unphysical regimes (e.g., negative 4PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

Figure 3. Evaluation of structural identifiability and predictive stability on the H2 + Br 2 benchmark. (a) Posterior Inclusion Probabilities (PIP): Derived from the PC-MCMC sampler, showing high posterior support for the reported elementary steps and low support for spurious pathways. (b) Trajectory Reconstruction: Predicted concentrations by the proposed PC-MCMC framework align robustly with noisy experimental observations across all chemical species. (c) PySR Parity Plot: Reaction rates predicted by symbolic regression exhibit high statistical goodness-of-fit, despite the model being purely phenomenological. (d) SINDy Trajectory Prediction: Unconstrained sparse regression leads to immediate numerical divergence due to violation of non-negativity constraints, illustrating instability. (e) Comparative Summary: Overview of inferred model representations, physical validity, and outcome classification, highlighting the distinction between true mechanism discovery (Ours) and curve fitting (Baselines). 

concentrations predicted by the unconstrained GP), we mod-ulate the standard Expected Improvement (EI) with a soft physical feasibility gate: 

αP C −EI (u) = αEI (u)·σsigmoid 

 γ(fphys (u)−τ ), (11) where σsigmoid (z) = (1 + e−z )−1 acts as a differentiable mask. The parameters γ (sharpness) and τ (threshold) en-sure the acquisition value vanishes smoothly as the physical model prediction fphys drops below a feasibility thresh-old, avoiding gradient discontinuities associated with hard indicators. 5PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

# 4. Experiments 

4.1. Experimental Setup Datasets. The proposed framework is evaluated on two benchmarks designed to assess structural identifiability and optimization efficiency. 

Hydrogen–Bromine ( H2 + Br 2). This benchmark targets mechanistic structure discovery in a stiff radical chain sys-tem. Isothermal simulations at T = 600 K were generated using Latin Hypercube Sampling (LHS) to produce high-information trajectories spanning three orders of magnitude in concentration. Thermal effects were intentionally ex-cluded to isolate topological ambiguity from temperature-induced variability. In the released benchmark script, ini-tial H2 and Br 2 concentrations are sampled by LHS over a bounded concentration range and integrated with a stiff ODE solver; the plotted proof-of-concept uses additive Gaus-sian concentration noise. Gaussian noise is an idealization matching the GP likelihood. Shot-noise and heteroscedastic measurement models are not claimed to be covered and are listed as limitations for experimental deployment. 

Styrene Epoxidation. This benchmark represents an indus-trial closed-loop optimization task characterized by complex competitive side reactions, including catalyst self-poisoning. The objective is to maximize product yield under a strictly limited experimental budget, reflecting realistic laboratory constraints. 

Baselines. We compare against state-of-the-art methods across structure discovery, surrogate modeling, and experi-mental design. PySR and SINDy are used as representative symbolic and sparse regression approaches for mechanism discovery. A standard Gaussian Process with an RBF kernel combined with Expected Improvement (EI) is the GP-BO baseline in Fig. 4. For the proposed CIGP loop, Fig. 4 uses PC-EI; Table 3 reports the added comparison among all acquisition functions, random search, and uncertainty sampling. 

4.2. Robust Mechanism Discovery Structural Identifiability and Topological Disentangle-ment. The structural identifiability of the proposed frame-work is rigorously evaluated on the H2 + Br 2 benchmark using a sparse dataset generated via Latin Hypercube Sam-pling. Despite the inherent stiffness of the radical chain mechanism, decisive structural selectivity is achieved by the PC-MCMC sampler. As summarized in Fig. 3e , the posterior inclusion probabilities (PIP) for the governing elementary steps—including initiation, propagation, and termination—show high posterior support in the reported run. Crucially, the direct molecular collision pathway 

H2 + Br 2 → 2HBr , which is mathematically plausible but kinetically prohibited, is successfully rejected ( PIP < 0.01 ). These results confirm that the explicit enforcement of mass conservation ( A · S = 0 ) and thermodynamic consistency effectively prunes the combinatorial search space, isolating the causal micro-kinetic mechanism from phenomenologi-cal correlations. 

Numerical Instability of Unconstrained Sparse Regres-sion. The necessity of physical constraints is further illus-trated by the failure of the SINDy baseline. As evidenced by the inferred equations, unconstrained sparse regression retrieves an ill-posed model dominated by spurious frac-tional terms (e.g., x0x0.51 ) and negative coefficients, violat-ing the non-negativity of chemical concentrations. As a consequence, severe numerical instability is observed: the ODE solver diverges after only two time steps ( 2/20 ) during trajectory reconstruction, rendering the learned dynamics physically invalid for extrapolation. 

Phenomenological Overfitting by Symbolic Regression. 

The distinction between curve fitting and true mechanism discovery is further highlighted by the PySR results. Sym-bolic regression successfully retrieves the macroscopic rate law d[HBr] 

dt ≈ 0.315 [H 2] [Br 2]0.5, (12) with a low training mean squared error of 1.65 × 10 −3

(complexity = 6 ). However, as summarized in Fig. 3e , this solution remains purely phenomenological. PySR fails to uncover the underlying radical reaction topology involv-ing H· and Br · intermediates that gives rise to the observed fractional-order dependence. In contrast, the proposed framework naturally reconstructs this behavior through the quasi-equilibrium of bromine dissociation, yielding a physi-cally interpretable derivation fully consistent with the law of mass action. 

4.3. Efficient Closed-Loop Optimization and Mechanism Identification Optimization Efficiency and Convergence Analysis. We evaluate closed-loop optimization performance of the pro-posed CIGP framework against a Standard Bayesian Op-timization (GP-BO) baseline on the styrene epoxidation benchmark. The exploration trajectories shown in Fig. 4(a– b) reveal fundamentally different search behaviors. The GP-BO baseline exhibits a scattered and unguided explo-ration pattern, with frequent redundant sampling in low-yield regions. In contrast, CIGP constrains exploration to the high-yield manifold, exhibiting a gradient-guided search behavior induced by physical priors. Quantitative convergence results in Fig. 4(c) further high-light this disparity. Using PC-EI, CIGP enters the high-yield regime ( > 0.70 M ) within four BO iterations after the ini-6PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery  

> Table 1. Comparison of discovered kinetic parameters versus ground truth.

Parameter Symbol Ground Truth Discovered (Ours) Relative Error 

Reaction Order nSty , n PAA 1.0, 1.0 1.0, 1.0 0.00% 

Main Activation Energy Ea, main 55 .00 kJ /mol 57 .41 kJ /mol 4.38% 

Side Activation Energy Ea, side 85 .00 kJ /mol 90 .14 kJ /mol 6.05% 

Main Pre-exponential Amain 1.0 × 10 6 2.66 × 10 6 Order Correct Side Pre-exponential Aside 1.0 × 10 10 4.15 × 10 10 Order Correct  

> Table 2. Quantitative ablation study on structural identifiability and physical consistency.

Model Variant Prior Distribution Thermodynamic Constraints Structure F1 Physical Validity Primary Failure Mode 

PC-MCMC (Ours) Spike-and-Slab Yes 1.0† 100% Minor pathway pruning Without Sparsity Gaussian ( L2) Yes 0.73 100% Dense topology (overfit-ting) Without Physics Spike-and-Slab No 0.50 0% Violated reversibility 

> †Recovers the dominant elementary-step set in the reported benchmark.

tial LHS design and reaches a maximum observed yield of 0.7788 M by the fifth BO iteration. By comparison, the GP-BO baseline fails to exceed the 0.70 M threshold even after fifteen iterations, achieving a best observed yield of only 0.6925 M . Overall, the physics-informed framework achieves a 3.75 × acceleration in convergence and a 12 .5% 

improvement in final yield over the purely data-driven base-line. 

Process Stability and Safety Assessment. Optimization robustness is assessed via per-iteration observed yields (Fig. 4(d)). The GP-BO baseline incurs four severe vio-lations, defined as yields below 0.2 M (gray shaded region), corresponding to experimentally infeasible operating condi-tions. Such volatility implies substantial resource waste and elevated operational risk in industrial settings. In contrast, no violations are observed during the PC-EI BO phase; low-yield points can still occur in the shared initial LHS design. The resulting 74% reduction in cumulative regret in this benchmark indicates that physical inductive biases effec-tively regularize exploration during the data-sparse initial-ization phase, preventing excursions into physically invalid regions. 

Parameter Identification Accuracy. The superior opti-mization efficiency of CIGP is attributed to accurate iden-tification of the underlying reaction kinetics. Unlike black-box surrogate models, micro-kinetic parameters are inferred jointly within the CIGP optimization loop. As reported in Table 1, the reaction orders of styrene and PAA are correctly identified as unity, consistent with the theoretical bimolecu-lar mechanism. Furthermore, relative errors in the inferred activation energies are limited to 4.38% for the main reac-tion and 6.05% for side reactions. These results demonstrate that rapid convergence is driven by a physically consistent reconstruction of the reaction energy landscape rather than numerical curve fitting alone. 

4.4. Ablation Study Setup. An ablation study is conducted on the H2 + Br 2

benchmark to quantify the contributions of sparsity-inducing priors and thermodynamic constraints. Two vari-ants are evaluated: (i) without Sparsity , using a continuous Gaussian prior; and (ii) without Physics , disabling thermo-dynamic consistency checks. 

Effect of the Sparsity Prior. As reported in Table 2, the full PC-MCMC framework achieves a structural F1 score of 1.0, corresponding to the recovery of all ground-truth elementary steps. Crucially, the reverse propagation step 

HBr + H· → Br · +H2, which is often challenging to identify due to thermodynamic constraints, is successfully retrieved with high confidence ( PIP > 0.95 , see Fig. 3a). This demonstrates that the Spike-and-Slab prior, combined with thermodynamic regularization, effectively resolves the ambiguity between low-flux reversible pathways and spuri-ous noise, a capability that is lost when the sparsity prior is removed (F1 drops to 0.73). 

Role of Thermodynamic Constraints. The importance of physical regularization is further evidenced by the failure of the without Physics variant. Relaxing thermodynamic constraints reduces the structural F1 score to 0.50 and elim-inates physical validity of inferred parameters. Specifically, microscopic reversibility is violated: the forward initiation step Br 2 → 2Br · is selected ( PIP = 1 .0), while its reverse 7PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery      

> Table 3. Acquisition-function comparison for styrene epoxidation over 10 random seeds. Final best yield is reported as mean ±standard deviation. BO violations count suggestions below 0.2 M after the initial LHS design.

Strategy Final best yield BO violations Interpretation 

EI 0.707 ± 0.059 1.4 Strong final-yield baseline for ex-ploitation. GWU 0.706 ± 0.031 1.9 Stable final yield while emphasizing parameter-sensitive regions. PC-EI 0.699 ± 0.060 0.8 Lowest low-yield violation rate among model-based strategies. Uncertainty 0.700 ± 0.054 8.5 High exploration but many unsafe low-yield suggestions. DH 0.668 ± 0.061 4.2 Useful for model-error probing, weaker for direct yield maximization. Random 0.652 ± 0.054 7.6 Lowest final yield and frequent low-yield experiments. termination step is rejected ( PIP = 0 .0). To compensate for missing pathways, the rate constant of the rate-determining step Br · +H 2 is overestimated by three orders of magni-tude ( kest ≈ 9.8 × 10 2 vs. ktrue = 1 .0). These results demonstrate that thermodynamic regularization is indispens-able for ensuring interpretability, numerical stability, and extrapolative validity of the discovered mechanisms (see Appendix Fig. 5). 

# 5. Conclusion 

We proposed PC-MCMC-CIGP, a unified framework that combines physically constrained Bayesian topology infer-ence with Chemical-Informed Gaussian Processes. In our benchmarks, hard conservation and detailed-balance checks improve interpretability of mechanism discovery, while gray-box active learning improves styrene epoxidation opti-mization relative to the reported GP-BO and random-search baselines. The added acquisition comparison clarifies that the acquisition functions have different purposes: EI-style criteria are competitive for final yield, whereas PC-EI re-duces low-yield experimental suggestions. 

Limitations and Future Directions. The present evidence is based on synthetic and oracle-based benchmarks rather than wet-lab closed-loop campaigns. The PC-MCMC stage relies on a pre-enumerated candidate reaction set, and rejec-tion sampling may become inefficient when many reversible pairs impose detailed-balance constraints. The observation model currently assumes Gaussian noise; Poisson shot noise, heteroscedastic sensor error, and asynchronous trajectory measurements require additional likelihood models. Fu-ture work will address these scalability and realism gaps using adaptive proposals, variational approximations, and automated reaction-template generation. 

# Impact Statement 

This work is a step toward trustworthy and autonomous sci-entific discovery in the chemical sciences. By synergizing physical laws with probabilistic machine learning, our PC-MCMC-CIGP framework addresses critical challenges in interpretability, safety, and efficiency that have hindered the adoption of black-box AI in high-stakes laboratory environ-ments. 

Accelerating Green Chemistry. In the styrene epoxidation benchmark, the proposed framework demonstrates faster process optimization and a 74% reduction in cumulative re-gret compared to the reported GP-BO baseline. In industrial applications, such efficiency gains directly translate to re-duced consumption of raw materials and energy, facilitating the rapid development of sustainable chemical processes and supporting global efforts toward carbon neutrality. 

Safety-Critical AI. Unlike purely data-driven approaches that may suggest hazardous operating conditions, our frame-work explicitly enforces thermodynamic and conservation constraints. This ”safety-by-design” philosophy prevents the algorithm from exploring physically prohibited or dan-gerous regimes, making it suitable for direct integration into autonomous robotic laboratories where human supervision is limited. 

Democratization of Scientific AI. We have demonstrated that rigorous mechanism discovery is feasible on standard CPUs without requiring massive GPU clusters (see Ap-pendix B). This low computational barrier democratizes access to advanced AI tools, empowering experimentalists in resource-constrained settings to leverage data-driven in-sights for mechanistic research. 

Broader Applicability. While validated on chemical ki-netics, the core principle of embedding domain-specific 8PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

Figure 4. Comparative evaluation of optimization performance between the Standard GP baseline and the proposed CIGP framework. 

(a–b) Exploration Trajectories: Three-dimensional sampling paths in the design space are visualized over the ground-truth yield landscape. The Standard GP baseline (a) exhibits a scattered exploration pattern with frequent sampling in low-yield regions, whereas CIGP (b) effectively constrains exploration to the high-yield manifold via physical priors. (c) Optimization Efficiency: Best-so-far yield trajectories are compared across iterations. CIGP (blue) achieves significantly faster convergence, approaching the theoretical maximum (green dashed line) within five iterations, while the Standard GP baseline (red) converges more slowly. (d) Process Stability and Safety: 

Observed yield per iteration is reported. The Standard GP demonstrates substantial volatility and multiple violations of the efficiency threshold (gray shaded region, < 0.2 M ), whereas the PC-EI BO phase of CIGP avoids low-yield suggestions in this run. 

differential equations into Bayesian priors is transferable to other scientific domains, such as systems biology and cli-mate modeling, where data is sparse but physical knowledge is abundant. 

# References 

Audoly, S., Bellu, G., D’Angio, L., Saccomani, M. P., and Cobelli, C. Global identifiability of nonlinear models of biological systems. IEEE Transactions on biomedical engineering , 48(1):55–65, 2002. Bonvin, D. and Rippin, D. Target factor analysis for the identification of stoichiometric models. Chemical Engi-neering Science , 45(12):3417–3426, 1990. Brubaker, M., Salzmann, M., and Urtasun, R. A family of mcmc methods on implicitly defined manifolds. In 

Artificial intelligence and statistics , pp. 161–172. PMLR, 2012. Brunton, S. L., Proctor, J. L., and Kutz, J. N. Discovering governing equations from data by sparse identification of nonlinear dynamical systems. Proceedings of the national academy of sciences , 113(15):3932–3937, 2016. Burlacu, B., Kronberger, G., and Kommenda, M. Operon c++ an efficient genetic programming framework for sym-bolic regression. In Proceedings of the 2020 genetic and evolutionary computation conference companion , pp. 1562–1570, 2020. 9PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

Burnham, S. C., Searson, D. P., Willis, M. J., and Wright, A. R. Inference of chemical reaction networks. Chemical Engineering Science , 63(4):862–873, 2008. Champion, K., Lusch, B., Kutz, J. N., and Brunton, S. L. Data-driven discovery of coordinates and governing equa-tions. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences ,116(45):22445–22451, 2019. Chang, C. and Zeng, T. A hybrid data-driven-physics-constrained gaussian process regression framework with deep kernel for uncertainty quantification. Journal of Computational Physics , 486:112129, 2023. Cranmer, M. Interpretable machine learning for science with pysr and symbolicregression. jl. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.01582 , 2023. Cross, E. J., Rogers, T. J., Pitchforth, D. J., Gibson, S. J., Zhang, S., and Jones, M. R. A spectrum of physics-informed gaussian processes for regression in engineering. 

Data-Centric Engineering , 5:e8, 2024. Da Veiga, S. and Marrel, A. Gaussian process modeling with inequality constraints. In Annales de la Facult ´e des sciences de Toulouse: Math ´ematiques , volume 21, pp. 529–555, 2012. Dalton, D., Lazarus, A., Gao, H., and Husmeier, D. Bound-ary constrained gaussian processes for robust physics-informed machine learning of linear partial differential equations. Journal of Machine Learning Research , 25 (272):1–61, 2024. Davidescu, F. P. and Jørgensen, S. B. Structural parameter identifiability analysis for dynamic reaction networks. 

Chemical Engineering Science , 63(19):4754–4762, 2008. Ederer, M. and Gilles, E. D. Thermodynamically feasible kinetic models of reaction networks. Biophysical journal ,92(6):1846–1857, 2007. Enciso, G., Erban, R., and Kim, J. Identifiability of stochas-tically modelled reaction networks. European Journal of Applied Mathematics , 32(5):865–887, 2021. Feinberg, M. Chemical reaction network structure and the stability of complex isothermal reactors—i. the deficiency zero and deficiency one theorems. Chemical engineering science , 42(10):2229–2268, 1987. George, E. I. and McCulloch, R. E. Variable selection via gibbs sampling. Journal of the American Statistical Association , 88(423):881–889, 1993. Girolami, M. and Calderhead, B. Riemann manifold langevin and hamiltonian monte carlo methods. Jour-nal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B: Statistical Methodology , 73(2):123–214, 2011. Hase, F., Roch, L. M., Kreisbeck, C., and Aspuru-Guzik, A. Phoenics: a bayesian optimizer for chemistry. ACS central science , 4(9):1134–1145, 2018. Hewing, L., Kabzan, J., and Zeilinger, M. N. Cautious model predictive control using gaussian process regres-sion. IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology ,28(6):2736–2743, 2019. Horn, F. and Jackson, R. General mass action kinetics. 

Archive for rational mechanics and analysis , 47(2):81– 116, 1972. Ishwaran, H. and Rao, J. S. Spike and slab variable selection: frequentist and bayesian strategies. 2005. Jenkinson, G., Zhong, X., and Goutsias, J. Thermodynami-cally consistent bayesian analysis of closed biochemical reaction systems. BMC bioinformatics , 11(1):547, 2010. Jiang, R., Singh, P., Wrede, F., Hellander, A., and Petzold, L. Identification of dynamic mass-action biochemical reaction networks using sparse bayesian methods. PLoS computational biology , 18(1):e1009830, 2022. Jones, D. R., Schonlau, M., and Welch, W. J. Efficient global optimization of expensive black-box functions. Journal of Global optimization , 13(4):455–492, 1998. Kennedy, M. C. and O’Hagan, A. Bayesian calibration of computer models. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology) , 63(3):425–464, 2001. Kim, S., Ji, W., Deng, S., Ma, Y., and Rackauckas, C. Stiff neural ordinary differential equations. Chaos: An Inter-disciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science , 31(9):093122, 2021. Kocijan, J. Modelling and control of dynamic systems using Gaussian process models . Springer, 2016. Kristensen, N. R., Madsen, H., and Jørgensen, S. B. Parame-ter estimation in stochastic grey-box models. Automatica ,40(2):225–237, 2004. Langary, D. and Nikoloski, Z. Inference of chemical reac-tion networks based on concentration profiles using an optimization framework. Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science , 29(11), 2019. Lubitz, T., Schulz, M., Klipp, E., and Liebermeister, W. Parameter balancing in kinetic models of cell metabolism. 

The Journal of Physical Chemistry B , 114(49):16298– 16303, 2010. Ma, T., Barajas-Solano, D. A., Tipireddy, R., and Tar-takovsky, A. M. Physics-informed gaussian process re-gression for probabilistic states estimation and forecasting in power grids. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.04591 , 2020. 10 PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

Metropolis, N., Rosenbluth, A. W., Rosenbluth, M. N., Teller, A. H., and Teller, E. Equation of state calculations by fast computing machines. The journal of chemical physics , 21(6):1087–1092, 1953. Mitchell, T. J. and Beauchamp, J. J. Bayesian variable selection in linear regression. Journal of the american statistical association , 83(404):1023–1032, 1988. Otte, C. Interpretable semi-parametric regression models with defined error bounds. Neurocomputing , 143:1–6, 2014. Owoyele, O. and Pal, P. Chemnode: A neural ordinary dif-ferential equations approach for chemical kinetics solvers. 

Energy and AI , 5:100082, 2021. Pal, A., Fagerberg, R., Andersen, J. L., Flamm, C., Dittrich, P., and Merkle, D. Finding thermodynamically favor-able pathways in chemical reaction networks using flows in hypergraphs and mixed-integer linear programming. 

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling , 2025. Park, T. and Casella, G. The bayesian lasso. Journal of the american statistical association , 103(482):681–686, 2008. Peskun, P. H. Optimum monte-carlo sampling using markov chains. Biometrika , 60(3):607–612, 1973. Piironen, J. and Vehtari, A. Sparsity information and reg-ularization in the horseshoe and other shrinkage priors. 2017. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P., and Karniadakis, G. E. Machine learning of linear differential equations using gaussian processes. Journal of Computational Physics , 348:683– 693, 2017. Rudy, S. H., Brunton, S. L., Proctor, J. L., and Kutz, J. N. Data-driven discovery of partial differential equations. 

Science advances , 3(4):e1602614, 2017. Sani, N., Lee, J., Nabi, R., and Shpitser, I. A semipara-metric approach to interpretable machine learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.04732 , 2020. Schmidt, M. and Lipson, H. Distilling free-form natural laws from experimental data. science , 324(5923):81–85, 2009. Searson, D. P., Willis, M. J., Horne, S. J., and Wright, A. R. Inference of chemical reaction networks using hybrid s-system models. Chemical Product and Process Modeling ,2(1), 2007. Shahriari, B., Swersky, K., Wang, Z., Adams, R. P., and De Freitas, N. Taking the human out of the loop: A review of bayesian optimization. Proceedings of the IEEE , 104 (1):148–175, 2015. Shields, B. J., Stevens, J., Li, J., Parasram, M., Damani, F., Alvarado, J. I. M., Janey, J. M., Adams, R. P., and Doyle, A. G. Bayesian reaction optimization as a tool for chemical synthesis. Nature , 590(7844):89–96, 2021. Snoek, J., Larochelle, H., and Adams, R. P. Practical bayesian optimization of machine learning algorithms. 

Advances in neural information processing systems , 25, 2012. Tibshirani, R. Regression shrinkage and selection via the lasso. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B: Statistical Methodology , 58(1):267–288, 1996. Van der Schaft, A., Rao, S., and Jayawardhana, B. Complex and detailed balancing of chemical reaction networks revisited. Journal of Mathematical Chemistry , 53(6): 1445–1458, 2015. Vlad, M. O. and Ross, J. Thermodynamically based con-straints for rate coefficients of large biochemical networks. 

Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine , 1(3):348–358, 2009. Walter, E. and Pronzato, L. Identification of parametric models: from experimental data. (No Title) , 1997. Warne, D. J., Baker, R. E., and Simpson, M. J. Simulation and inference algorithms for stochastic biochemical re-action networks: from basic concepts to state-of-the-art. 

Journal of the Royal Society Interface , 16(151):20180943, 2019. Williams, C. K. and Rasmussen, C. E. Gaussian processes for machine learning , volume 2. MIT press Cambridge, MA, 2006. Willis, M. J. and von Stosch, M. Inference of chemical re-action networks using mixed integer linear programming. 

Computers & Chemical Engineering , 90:31–43, 2016. 11 PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

# A. PC-MCMC Inference Algorithm 

The detailed procedure for the Physically Constrained MCMC (PC-MCMC) sampler is outlined in Algorithm 1. This algorithm ensures that all sampled reaction networks strictly adhere to mass conservation, electron conservation, and thermodynamic consistency (detailed balance) while efficiently exploring the combinatorial topology space using a Spike-and-Slab prior. 

Fixed-Dimension Parameter Space. Contrary to trans-dimensional approaches (e.g., Reversible Jump MCMC), our Spike-and-Slab formulation maintains a fixed parameter dimension corresponding to the total number of candidate reactions |R| .The auxiliary parameters θ remain instantiated even for inactive reactions ( γj = 0 ), allowing standard Metropolis-Hastings updates without dimension-matching Jacobians. 

Structure Move (Topology Sampling). The proposal distribution q(γ′ | γ(t−1) ) consists of selecting a reaction index j

uniformly at random and flipping its status ( γ′ 

> j

= 1 − γ(t−1)  

> j

). Since this proposal is symmetric, the acceptance ratio αstruct 

(Algorithm 1, Line 9) simplifies to the ratio of unnormalized posteriors: 

αstruct = min 



1, P (D | S(γ′), k(γ′, θ)) · P (γ′)

P (D | S(γ), k(γ, θ)) · P (γ)



(13) where S(γ) is the stoichiometry defined by the active subset. Crucially, during a structure move, the auxiliary parameters θ

are held fixed. 

Parameter Move. We employ a Random Walk Metropolis kernel for the continuous parameters. The proposal distribution is a Gaussian centered at the current value: θ′ 

> j

∼ N (θ(t−1)  

> j

, σ 2

> prop

). The acceptance ratio is: 

αparam = min 



1, P (D | γ, θ′)P (θ′ | γ)

P (D | γ, θ)P (θ | γ)



(14) If thermodynamic constraints are violated by θ′, the prior term P (θ′ | γ) evaluates to zero, leading to automatic rejection. 

Algorithm 1 Bayesian Inference of Reaction Network Topology and Kinetic Parameters 

Require: Data D, Atomic Matrix A, Candidate Reactions R

Ensure: Posterior samples of Topology S and Parameters k 

> 1:

Initialize γ(0) , k(0) satisfying constraints  

> 2:

for t = 1 to T do  

> 3:

// Structure Move (Topology Sampling)  

> 4:

Propose new topology γ′ by flipping bit j of γ(t−1)  

> 5:

Construct candidate stoichiometry S′ based on γ′ 

> 6:

if A · S′·j̸ = 0 then  

> 7:

Reject γ′ (Violation of Mass/Electron Conservation)  

> 8:

else  

> 9:

Compute Acceptance Ratio αstruct with Sparsity Prior  

> 10:

Accept γ(t) = γ′ with probability min(1 , α struct ) 

> 11:

end if  

> 12: 13:

// Parameter Move (Kinetic Constant Sampling)  

> 14:

Propose k′ from proposal distribution q(k′ | k(t−1) ) 

> 15:

if Thermodynamic Loop Constraints ( ∆G) violated then  

> 16:

Reject k′ (Enforce Thermodynamic Consistency)  

> 17:

else  

> 18:

Calculate Likelihood P (D | S(t), k′) via stiff ODE integration  

> 19:

Accept k(t) = k′ based on Metropolis criterion  

> 20:

end if  

> 21:

end for  

> 22:

return MCMC chains for S and k

12 PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery 

Algorithm 2 CIGP-driven Active Learning 

Require: Initial data Dinit , Physical ODE model fphys , Acquisition function α(·), Budget NBO 

Ensure: Optimized process conditions u∗, Calibrated parameters W∗ 

> 1:

D ← D init  

> 2:

for i = 1 to NBO do  

> 3:

// Hybrid Model Construction  

> 4:

Define Mean Function: μ(u) = fphys (u; W) 

> 5:

Define Kernel: k(u, u′) = RBF (u, u′; Θ gp ) 

> 6: 7:

// Joint Training (Constrained Optimization)  

> 8:

Define Objective: J(W, Θgp ) = LGP − λσ 2 

> f
> 9:

Solve: W∗, Θ∗ 

> gp

← argmax J 

> 10:

subject to σ2 

> min

≤ σ2 

> f

≤ ϵtol  

> 11: 12:

// Physics-Aware Acquisition  

> 13:

Select next experiment point unew : 

> 14:

unew = argmax u∈U α(u | D , W∗) (e.g., GWU, PC-EI)  

> 15: 16:

// Experimental Feedback  

> 17:

Conduct experiment: ynew ← LabOracle (unew ) 

> 18:

Update dataset: D ← D ∪ { unew , y new } 

> 19:

end for  

> 20:

return Best found condition u∗ and Parameters W∗

Integrated Workflow. The proposed framework operates in two coupled phases to achieve robust autonomous discovery. First, PC-MCMC (Algorithm 1) is employed to identify the most probable reaction topology and estimate initial kinetic parameters from preliminary data. Second, CIGP-driven Active Learning (Algorithm 2) utilizes the identified topology (embedded in fphys ) to construct a hybrid surrogate model. This model guides the experimental design to simultaneously refine the kinetic parameters W and optimize process conditions u, as detailed below. 

Visual Analysis of Failure Modes. The structural consequences of relaxing inductive biases are further elucidated through posterior landscape visualization as shown in Figure 5. In the absence of the sparsity-inducing prior as illustrated in panels a and b of Figure 5 a distinctively dense topology is retrieved. High posterior inclusion probabilities exceeding 0.6 are assigned indiscriminately to candidate reactions including kinetically prohibitive pathways such as the direct dissociation of hydrogen. While reasonable alignment with observational data is maintained in the reconstructed trajectory this is attributed to overfitting wherein spurious structural complexity is recruited to absorb measurement noise rather than isolating the causal signal. Conversely the violation of microscopic reversibility upon the removal of thermodynamic constraints is starkly illustrated in panels c and d of Figure 5. A structural asymmetry is observed where forward reactions such as chain initiation are identified with unit probability whereas the corresponding reverse steps are completely suppressed with a posterior inclusion probability approaching zero effectively decoupling the equilibrium relationship. Although a tight numerical fit is achieved via parameter drift the loss of detailed balance renders the discovered mechanism physically inconsistent and unreliable for extrapolation beyond the training regime. 

Implementation Details. For the mechanism discovery baselines, SINDy was configured with a polynomial feature library (degree ≤ 3) and the STLSQ optimizer (threshold λ = 0 .1). PySR was trained for 100 iterations using default binary operators (+ , −, ∗, / ) and a complexity penalty of 0.001. For the H2 + Br 2 benchmark, initial concentrations were sampled via LHS from [0 .1, 5.0] M and trajectories were generated by integrating the mass-action ODE. The Styrene Epoxidation Oracle simulates a competitive reaction network: main epoxidation ( k1 = 10 6e−55000 /RT ) and side hydrolysis (k2 = 10 10 e−85000 /RT ), subject to standard Arrhenius kinetics. The released code includes scripts for Fig. 3, Fig. 4, the acquisition comparison, and smoke-test verification; generated CSV summaries are written under examples/outputs/ .13 PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery   

> Figure 5. Visualization of structural failure modes under ablation settings. Panels a and b depict the absence of the sparsity prior where the sampler converges to a dense topology in panel a and assigns high posterior probability to kinetically prohibited pathways to minimize residual error in panel b. Panels c and d illustrate the absence of thermodynamic constraints where the principle of microscopic reversibility is violated in panel c as forward chain initiation is selected with a PIP near 1.0 while the reverse termination is suppressed with a PIP near 0.0 resulting in a physically inconsistent mechanism despite accurate trajectory fitting in panel d.

# B. Computational Complexity and Runtime Analysis 

To assess the practical feasibility of the proposed framework, we evaluated the wall-clock execution time of both the PC-MCMC (Structure Discovery) and CIGP (Active Learning) modules. All experiments were conducted on a standard personal laptop equipped with an Intel Core i7-12700H CPU (2.30 GHz) and 32 GB RAM, without utilizing any GPU acceleration. 

B.1. Runtime Breakdown 

Table 4 summarizes the computational cost compared to standard baselines. 

B.2. Analysis of Computational Overhead Structure Discovery (PC-MCMC). The PC-MCMC sampler requires solving a stiff ODE system at each Metropolis-Hastings step to evaluate the likelihood. While this incurs a higher computational cost ( ≈ 30 minutes) compared to regression-based methods like SINDy, it is negligible in the context of mechanistic discovery, which is typically a one-time offline process. Furthermore, the fixed-dimensional parameter space of our Spike-and-Slab formulation avoids the complexities of trans-dimensional sampling (e.g., RJMCMC), ensuring convergence within a reasonable timeframe on personal computing devices. 14 PC-MCMC-CIGP for Reaction Network Discovery  

> Table 4. Average wall-clock time for model inference and optimization tasks.

Task / Method Computational Load Runtime Hardware 

Phase 1: Mechanism Discovery ( H2 + Br 2 Benchmark) 

PC-MCMC (Ours) 10,000 MCMC steps (w/ Stiff ODE) 28 .5 ± 2.1 min CPU SINDy (Baseline) Sparse Regression (STLSQ) < 1.0 sec CPU PySR (Baseline) Symbolic Regression (100 gens) 5.2 ± 0.5 min CPU 

Phase 2: Closed-Loop Optimization (Styrene Epoxidation) 

CIGP (Ours) Hyperparam Opt + Acquisition (per iter) 1.2 ± 0.3 sec CPU Standard GP (Baseline) Analytical Inference (per iter) < 0.1 sec CPU 

Active Learning (CIGP). For the online optimization phase, the CIGP inference entails numerical integration of the mean function fphys . Although this increases the cost per iteration to ≈ 1.2 seconds (compared to < 0.1 seconds for a standard GP), this overhead is small relative to laboratory reaction and analysis times. The full PC-MCMC-CIGP loop should nevertheless be viewed as a two-stage workflow: PC-MCMC is an offline structure-discovery step, while CIGP acquisition is the online step used between experiments. 15