Title: 2606.30961v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.30961v1

Published Time: Wed, 01 Jul 2026 00:17:48 GMT

Number of Pages: 76

Markdown Content:
1

# Elem eNet: Multiscale Molecular Machine Learning 

# with Uncertainty Quantification Across the Periodic 

# Table 

Jacob W. Toney 1,2 ,# , Samir Darouich 1, 3,4 ,# , Yir an Wang 1,2 , Aaron G. Garrison 1, Johannes 

Kästner 3, and Heather J. Kulik 1, 2, 5,*

> 1

Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 

02139 , USA 

> 2

Center for Computational Science and Engineering , Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 

Cambridge, MA 02139, USA 

> 3

Institute for Theoretical Chemistry , University of Stuttgart, Germany 

> 4

Institute for Artificial Intelligence, University of Stuttgart, Germany 

> 5

Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA 

#These authors contributed equally 

*corresponding author email: hjkulik@mit.edu 

ABSTRACT : Advances in deep learning architectures and representations have enabled ML -

driven chemical property prediction, but state -of -the -art (SOTA) m odels have remained largely 

confined to independent codebases and lack support for diverse chemical species . This work 

introduc es ElemeNet , a unified , general -purpose software package for molecular machine 

learning . The ElemeNet software package enable s the training of advanced ML models for 

diverse properties and datasets with an enlarged range of elemental compositions. We define 

molecular representations compatible with elements 1 –100 , supporting diverse organometallic 

and biological systems in addition to organic chemistry already well -served by the Chemprop 

ML toolkit . As well as more common atom -, bond -, and molecule -level predictions, w e

introduce moiet y predictions . We also natively define optional con ditioning on charge and spin 

states . Advanced E(3) -equivariant and transformer architectures are supported , as well as 

classical 2D models , with all classes includ ing built -in uncertainty quantification through 

deterministic and statistical measures. We benchmark our protocols for ML model training 

against representative datasets from organic, inorganic , coordination, and biological chemistry, 

achieving competitive and SOTA performance relative to literature baselines and favorable 

scaling to millions of molecules . The entire workflow is exposed through a concise command -

line interface, lowering the barrier to entry for non -expert users. We anticipate ElemeNet will 

empower non -computational researchers to leverage modern deep learning methods across the 

chemical and physical sciences. 2

1. Introduction .

Machine learning (ML) has become a central tool in computational chemistry, reshaping 

molecular property prediction and chemical space exploration. Early heuristic structure –property 

models aimed at captur ing linear free -energy relationships 1-4 were largely supplanted by 

multivariate regression for navigating more diverse chemical spaces .5-13 Deep learning further 

expanded the expressive capacity of models, allowing task -relevant features and relationships to 

be learned directly from data rather than through handcrafted features .14 -16 This progression has 

been mirrored by a n evolution in molecular representation s, from fixed -length encodings 17 and 

string -based representations 18 to two - and three -dimensional molecular graphs .19 -25 Model 

architectures have advanced in tandem: Gaussian process es and multilayer perceptrons (MLPs) 

ha ve frequently been replaced by graph neural networks (GNNs) , which operate directly on 

molecular graphs , as datasets became larger .26 -29 The introduction of symmetry -equivariance and 

attention have since defined state -of -the -art (SOTA) architectures .29 -34 Structure –property 

prediction GNN models are key players in high -throughput virtual screening for molecular 

discovery and optimization , and GNNs serv e as the foundation of modern generative models and 

machine -learning interatomic potentials (MLIPs) .35 -46 These representations and architectures 

have leveraged the emergence of large quantum -chemical data bases , to bring deep learning to the 

forefront of computational chemistry. 47 -50 

These advances have enabled the development and training of increasingly accurate 

models for chemical property prediction. In practice, however, these developments are largely 

confined to specialized codebases that are difficult or impossible to generalize beyond the 

chemical contexts for which they were designed. The slow pace at which technical advances 

reach general -purpose software has limited their adoption. The Chemprop package represented a 3

significant step toward democratizing ML for organic chemistry. 51,52 Wrapped in a convenient 

and accessible framework, the codebase allows chemists without ML expertise to train 

performant GNN models on their own datasets. Nevertheless, the Chemprop architecture carries 

several important limitations, foremost among them its restriction to 2D models trained on 

SMILES inputs. While SMILES strings encode molecular connectivity, they do not natively 

represent stereochemistry, limit ing the expressive capacity of all models. SMILES are further 

known to inadequately describe systems with complex bonding, including organometallic 

complexes, heavy elements, and biological macromolecules that are central to catalysis, 

magnetism, and drug discovery. 20,23,53 -56 Equivariant and attention -based frameworks employed 

by SOTA models are also not supported . Extend ing molecular machine learning workflows to 

the full periodic table requires extensions beyond existing general -purpose tools .

The e lectronic structure of molecules is a function of the 3D coordinates of all atoms in a 

system, limiting the ability of 2D methods to reproduce high -accuracy ab initio or experimental 

reference data. Although 2D representations retain clear utility, such as when 3D information is 

unavailable or in 2D -to -3D learning tasks, models capable of capturing complex bonding 

patterns are ultimately required for property prediction spanning the periodic table. Beyond 

atomic coordinates, charge and spin are necessary to fully specify a quantum -chemical system 

and must also be encoded . A n ML codebase for general -purpose chemistry must also keep pace 

with increasing dataset sizes, scaling efficiently to millions of molecules. Finally, uncertainty 

quantification is a critical but frequently overlooked component of molecular ML tasks. Reliable 

uncertainty estimates are valuable not only for knowing when a n individual prediction can be 

trusted but are a strict prerequisite for active learning campaigns. 57 -63 Methods based on latent -

space distance have proven effective but are limited to the topology of the latent manifold (i.e., 4

the quality of the learned representation). 64 -70 Fully Bayesian ensemble -based approaches are 

ideal but incur substantial computational cost. 71 -75 Recently introduced shallow, last -layer 

ensembles address this through a quasi -Bayesian approximation to a deep ensemble. 76,77 

In this work, we introduce ElemeNet, a modular software package for molecular machine 

learning across the periodic table. ElemeNet accepts diverse molecular input types spanning both 

2D and 3D representations, supporting single - and multitask property prediction at the levels of 

atoms, bonds, and molecules. It additionally enables novel subgraph -level targets for direct 

prediction on chemical moieties. Graph -level embeddings further allow predict ion of molecular 

properties as explicit functions of charge and spin, invaluable for modern efforts to integrate ML 

and electronic structure theory. Our codebase implements advanced GNN architectures, 

including 3D equivariant encoders and transformer s absent from peer end -to -end packages, while 

retaining support for classical 2D models with MLP readout. ElemeNet scal es well to datasets 

containing millions of molecules and generates well -calibrated uncertainty estimates for all 

prediction tasks . Benchmarks across tasks in organic, inorganic, biological, and coordination 

chemistry reveal ElemeNet to be competitive with and to frequently outperform representative 

literature baselines . We anticipate that ElemeNet will serve as a practical platform for training 

performant deep learning models across chemical domains and datasets, democratizing machine 

learning for chemistry. 

2. Computational Details .

2a. Code Dependencies. 5

ElemeNet is constructed using several existing software packages as dependencies. 

PyTorch 78 version 2.8.0 and PyTorch Geometric 79 version 2.6.1 are used for graph, dataloader, 

and model, construction. Hyperparameter optimization is performed using Optuna 80 version 

4.5.0. RDKit 81 version 2025.03.5 is used for parsing SMILES strings, while scikit -learn 82 

version 1.7.2 is used for defining data splits. Experiments were run across different Nvidia Tesla 

V100, L40S, and H200 GPUs as available. 

2b. Model Baselines .

Model evaluations performed on the QM9, tmQMg, pydentate, and GEMS datasets were 

implemented to maintain consistency with corresponding literature baselines. The QM9 dataset 

includes 133,885 small organic molecules containing up to nine heavy atoms (C, N, O, F) 

computed at the DFT level .47 For QM9 experiments, all models were trained using the data splits 

from Heid et al. 51 2D models were trained using SMILES string inputs both with and without 

optional RDKit features, with the results of the best -performing models reported. For all 2D 

models, deep ensembles of 5 models with identical configurations were trained and their 

predictions averaged, using the same ensembling procedure as Heid et al. 3D models were 

trained using xyz inputs, with no deep ensembling. Implicit hydrogens were used for both 2D 

and 3D models. All models were hyperparameter optimized for 25 trials of 100 epochs each. 

The tmQMg dataset contains 60,799 neutral and singly charged mononuclear transition 

metal complexes from the Cambridge Structural Database 83 with geometries optimized and 

properties calculated with DF T. 48,84 The tmQMg experiments used the same splits from Kneiding 

et al. 84 , omitting the same outliers identified and excluded in the original tmQMg work. 2D 

models were trained using mol2 inputs, while 3D models were trained using xyz inputs, and both 6

types of models used explicit hydrogens. Molecular charge as reported in tmQMg is used as an 

input to the charge -spin neural network. All 2D models were hyperparameter optimized for 25 

trials of 100 epochs each. All 3D models with MLP readout used the optimal hyperparameters 

identified by the corresponding 2D model. 3D models with transformer readout used default 

hyperparameters. 

The pydentate baselines trained on 66 ,355 ligands extracted from the Cambridge 

Structural Database 83 used the same structures and splits from Toney et al. 85 Only 2D GNN 

models were considered. Models trained to predict coordinating atoms and coordination number 

used SMILES inputs with implicit hydrogens, omitting the 66 of 66,355 structures for which 

SMILES strings could not be parsed. Models trained to predict bond lengths and metal –ligand 

bond lengths used mol2 inputs and explicit hydrogens. All models were hyperparameter 

optimized for 25 trials of 100 epochs each. 

The GEMS dataset includes 2,713 ,986 charged, off -equilibrium fragments of biological 

molecules with DFT -calculated properties .86 We developed GEMS baselines using random splits 

because there were no prior data splits or benchmarks on this dataset. Only 3D GNN models 

with transformer readout were considered. Models were trained from xyz inputs with explicit 

hydrogen atoms using default hyperparameters. Molecular charge as reported in the GEMS 

dataset is used as an input to the charge -spin neural network. 

For all baselines obtained in this work across all datasets and tasks considered, models 

were initially trained for 500 epochs with early stopping based on validation loss. In the case that 

the minimum validation loss was observed within the final 100 epochs of training, models were 7

finetuned for up to 1000 epochs for 2D models and 2000 epochs for 3D models , again with early 

stopping. 2D models were trained on a single GPU, 3D models were trained across 4 GPUs. 

3. Results and Discussion .

3a. Model Architectures and Representations .

We constructed the ElemeNet code to support molecular (i.e., finite) systems containing 

elements spanning the periodic table, with explicit support for atomic numbers 1 –100 (i.e., 

hydrogen to fermium). The code supports both 2D and 3D graph learning, each with a unique 

method of molecular graph construction (Figure 1) . This flexibility is meant to accommodate 

unique modeling requirements and data availability among chemical domains (e.g., organic and 

inorganic chemistry). The 2D representations (i.e., derived from topological information in 

chemical bonds) lack any 3D information, as coordinates are used only for bond interpretation 

and subsequently discarded. As such, these molecular graphs are less computationally expensive 

than their 3D counterparts but lack any encoding of stereochemistry, making them well -suited to 

target properties primarily determined by 2D interactions (e.g., physicochemical properties 87 ). In 

the case of learning tasks where 3D information is necessary (e.g., interatomic potentials 88 ,

electronic structure properties 89 ), molecular graphs are constructed from 3D coordinates. In this 

case, we define edges pairwise between all atoms within a tunable cutoff radius, with only the 

3D distance between atoms being used as edge features to impose E(3) equivariance 32 . For both 

2D and 3D input types, the code featurizes the resulting molecular graphs and passes them to the 

downstream encoder without further preprocessing of connectivity. 8

Figure 1. Block diagram representation of the ElemeNet architecture. Initial node, edge, and 

graph representations are constructed from a given molecular input (left). Node and edge features 

are used to learn latent embeddings through message -passing in a 2D or equivariant 3D GNN 

(bottom middle), while graph features of charge and spin are projected through a dedicated 

neural network (top middle). Learned node representations are pooled and concatenated to graph 

embeddings before being processed by a readout MLP or transformer for property prediction 

(right). While graph -level property prediction is depicted for representative purposes, ElemeNet 

also supports multitask and multiscale targets (Section 3b) with ensemble -based uncertainty 

quantification (Section 3c). 

Existing graph neural network frameworks for chemistry typically rely on initial 

representations tailored to main group organic chemistry (e.g., hybridization, covalent bond 

orders), which are less well defined for complex molecules (e.g., with noncovalent interactions 

or Jahn –Teller distortion). To define chemical priors that are broadly balanced across elements in 

the periodic table, our 2D and 3D models both utilize an initial node representation comprised of 

key tabulated atomic properties (Supporting Information Table S 1). Specifically, this feature 

vector includes continuous features (i.e., atomic mass, covalent radius, van der Waals radius, 

electronegativity, polarizability, ionization potential, and electronegativity) that are represented 

as scaled values. We also add categorical features (i.e., group, period, and number of valence 9

electrons in s, p, d, and f atomic orbitals) that are one -hot encoded based on values from a lookup 

table. Discrete features (i.e., coordination number and number of neighboring hydrogen atoms) 

are provided directly and scaled accordingly (Supporting Information Table S1) . The code 

updates the resulting node feature vector through message -passing operations to achieve a 

learned representation, which is subsequently passed through a readout decoder for property 

prediction. Edge features are provided that encode key properties of covalent bond type (i.e., 

single, double, triple, or aromatic) as encoded by the input molecular graph , an estimated bond 

length (approximated by the sum of covalent radii between bonded atoms), and a Boolean label 

indicat ing whether the bond includes a metal (Supporting Information Table S 2 and Text S1 ). 

Graph -level representations encoding the charge and spin state of a molecule are also included to 

enable development of models with the ability to capture changes in electronic structure (Figure 

1) . These features are each projected through a dedicated charge -spin neural network and 

concatenated to the learned node representations (Supporting Information Text S2 and S3). 

While we observe strong performance with our default initial representation scheme, 

ElemeNet also supports augmenting this representation with additional features. Additional user -

provided features may be provided at the node, edge, or graph level. In the case that these 

features include charge and spin information, these graph -level attributes are updated from their 

default values (i.e., assuming neutral atoms and low -spin states). Optional auxiliary chemical 

information is available from bulk material properties and semiempirical quantum chemical 

calculations 90 (Supporting Information Tables S 3 and S4). When enabled, these additional 

features are concatenated to the corresponding initial atom, bond, and molecule -level 

representations. ElemeNet also supports the use of implicit hydrogen atoms, where all nodes 

corresponding to hydrogen atoms are not featurized and are ignored by the network, while the 10 

representations of all remaining heavy atoms are updated with an additional attribute encoding 

the number of attached hydrogens. This reduces the computational cost of model training at the 

expense of expressivity. As such, we advise against the use of implicit hydrogens for learning 

tasks with relevant hydrogen chemistry for which explicit encoding is warranted (e.g., hydrogen 

bonding, agostic interactions, and off -equilibrium structures). Once generated, the initial node, 

edge, and graph representations are transformed to learned embeddings and target predictions 

based on the specified model architecture. 

ElemeNet adopts a modular architecture in which a learnable graph neural network 

encoder is used to extract latent embeddings from initial node, edge, and graph representations. 

These latent embeddings are subsequently passed to a task -specific readout module for property 

prediction. Supported encoder architectures are 2D graph neural networks (GNNs) and 3D 

equivariant graph neural networks (EGNNs), while the readout module may be a multilayer 

perceptron (MLP) or a transformer. Our 2D GNN encoders support a range of architectures, 

including the widely used directed message -passing algorithm introduced by Gilmer and 

coworkers 91 and implemented in several molecular machine learning workflows. 32,51,52,84 We also 

provide support for graph convolution 92,93 , graph isomorphism 94 , and graph attention networks 95 ,

which are absent from existing codebases 51,52 . All GNN layers operate on input node features, 𝐱 !,

and, optionally, edge features, 𝐞 !" to compute learned embeddings, 𝐱 !

> ($)

:

𝐱 ! 

> ($&')

= 𝑓 %𝐱 !

> ($)

, 𝐱 "∈𝒩 (!) 

> ($)

, 𝐞 !" ∈𝒩 (!), 𝛉 ( (1)

where 𝐱 ! 

> ($)

is the initial representation for node 𝑖 at layer ℎ, 𝒩 (𝑖 ) is the set of all nodes that share 

an edge with 𝑖 , 𝐞 !" is the feature vector describing the edge between nodes 𝑖 and 𝑗 , and 𝛉 is a set 

of learnable parameters characterizing the update step. The functional form of the node 11 

embedding update will vary depending on the convolution operator selected (eqn. 1). 91 -95 

Repeating equation 1 for all 𝑁 atoms constitutes a single message -passing layer. This process is 

then repeated for each of the 𝐻 hidden layers in the graph neural network encoder, resulting in 

final learned node embeddings 𝐗 (*). In the case of graph -level target properties, the learned node 

embeddings are pooled and concatenated to any available graph -level features 𝐠 , resulting in a 

graph -level representation 𝐠 +:

𝐠 + = concat 9pool 9𝐗 (*)<, 𝐠 <, 𝑦 > = 𝜙 (𝐠 +) (2)

where 𝑦 > denotes the predicted target property and 𝜙 represents the readout neural network. We 

note that for node -level target properties the pooling operator is omitted (eqn. 2). 

Our EGNN encoder uses separate message -passing layers for processing invariant scalar 

features (e.g., atomic property descriptors) and 3D coordinate information based on the 

architecture first introduced by Satorras and coworkers 32 . The EGNN architecture uses no edge -

based features beyond pairwise distances. The use of interatomic distances enables E(3) -

equivariance at modest computational expense compared to architectures utilizing spherical 

harmonics and tensorial equivariant features. 32,96 The pairwise distances are defined by atomic 

coordinates, 𝐳 !, and projected into a continuous space, 𝐫 !" , via Gaussian basis functions along 

with optional multi -head attention, 𝐺 (eq n. 3): 

𝐫 !" = 𝐺 DE𝐳 ! 

> ($)

− 𝐳 "

> ($)

E,

G (3)

where the superscript (ℎ) denotes the hidden layer. Our architecture next updates node (eq n. 4) 

and edge (eq n. 5) embeddings through a series of message -passing operations, referred to as 

"sublayers", to update node and edge embeddings: 12 

𝐞 !"  

> (-)

= 𝜙 .%𝐱 !

> (-)

, 𝐱 "

> (-)

, 𝐫 !" ( (4)

𝐱 ! 

> (-&')

= 𝐱 ! 

> (-)

+ 𝜙 / D𝐱 !

> (-)

, pool "∈𝒩 (!)%𝐞 !" 

> (-)

(G (5)

where 𝐞 !"  

> (-)

is the edge embedding between nodes 𝑖 and 𝑗 at sublayer 𝑠 , 𝜙 . and 𝜙 / are small MLP 

networks dedicated to updating edge and node embeddings, and 𝐱 ! 

> (-)

is the node embedding of 

node 𝑖 at sublayer 𝑠 . We emphasize that 𝐱 ! 

> (-)

(eq n. 5) does not include 3D atomic coordinates, 

which are stored separately as 𝐳 ! (eq n. 6) . After repeating for all 𝑆 sublayers, the latent 

embedding of coordinates is updated: 

𝐳 ! 

> ($&')

= 𝐳 ! 

> ($)

+ pool "∈𝒩 (!) N𝐳 ! 

> ($)

− 𝐳 "

> ($)

O𝐫 !" + 1 , 𝜙 0%𝐱 !

> (1)

, 𝐱 "

> (1)

, 𝐫 !" (P (6)

where 𝜙 0 is a dedicated coordinate -update network. This entire process is then repeated for 𝐻 

sets of layers (i.e., equivariant blocks ), resulting in a final set of learned node embeddings 𝐗 (*)

and coordinate embeddings 𝐙 (*). These latent embeddings are pooled, concatenated to graph -

level descriptors, and projected through a readout network in a manner identical to the 2D GNN 

architecture (eqn. 2). 

To map the learned representations output by a GNN encoder to target variables, 

ElemeNet supports an MLP readout module standard in graph -based learning tasks. For 

increased expressivity, transformer -based readout is also implemented via multi -head self -

attention and feed -forward sublayers across the embeddings learned by the GNN encoder. This 

enables dynamic weighting of different components in the molecular graph. While this approach 

facilitates more rapid learning of complex interdependencies and long -range interactions, it does 13 

so at the expense of increased computational cost during training. The modularity of ElemeNet’s 

encoder -readout architecture results in a vast hyperparameter space, necessitating efficient 

optimization over proposed model configurations. 

For a given encoder -readout architecture (e.g., a GNN encoder with MLP readout), 

hyperparameter optimization is handled by Optuna 80 , a Bayesian optimization framework for 

navigating the high -dimensional space of potential activation functions, convolution operators, 

pooling functions, dropouts, neurons, number of layers, and network shapes (Supporting 

Information Table S 5). Five nonlinear activation functions are available for all layers (i.e., 

ReLU, TanH, Leaky ReLU, GeLU, and SiLU), offering a range of smoothness properties. For 

2D GNN encoders, five convolution operators (i.e., GraphConv, GCNConv, GINEConv, 

NNConv , and GAT) are also supported, along with mean, sum, and max pooling where 

applicable (i.e., only for graph -level prediction tasks). A key additional parameter to consider is 

network shape. Existing literature on representation learning has highlighted the benefits of 

compressing or expanding model latent space during training 97 -100 . In addition to the number of 

neurons and hidden layers in the encoder and readout modules, we separately consider encoder 

and readout shapes as tunable hyperparameters, which may be defined in terms of the number of 

neurons per hidden layer either being constant, increasing, decreasing, "hourglass", or 

"pyramid". For the latter two cases, hourglass refers to the case where the neuron count 

decreases and then increase s and pyramid corresponds to the case where the neuron count 

increases then decreases (Figure 2). These hidden layer shapes enable exploration of network 

structure and information bottlenecks within the encoder and readout modules, a design choice 

often overlooked in existing molecular machine learning codes. Bayesian optimization over this 

vast design space is central to ElemeNet’s capability to efficiently discover high -performing 14 

architectures for diverse prediction tasks in an automated fashion. Together with the modular 

encoder -readout design and robust initial representations, ElemeNet is well -suited as a general -

purpose framework for molecular machine learning. 

Figure 2. (a) Summary of different representations and targets available in ElemeNet . A given 

molecular input may be transformed to 2D or 3D molecular graphs which are used to predict 

targets at the molecular (graph), atomic (node), bond (edge), or moiety (subgraph) level. (b) 

Shallow ensemble readout layers supported in ElemeNet. Given a shared model trunk, the final 

readout layer is replaced with a last -layer ensemble that is independently trained. The mean ( 𝜇 )

and standard deviation ( 𝜎 ) in predictions across the ensemble heads are used to parameterize a 

predictive distribution. The resulting negative log likelihood is used as the loss function to be 

minimized in training the overall model. (c) Supported network shapes in ElemeNet . In networks 

with "constant" shape, the number of neurons is the same for every hidden layer. "Increasing" 

shapes see the hidden size gradually get larger with each layer, while hidden layer size in 

"decreasing" networks steadily decreases. "Hourglass" and "pyramid" shapes are more 

sophisticated schemes in which the hidden size is sequentially expanded and contracted. 

3b. Multiscale Learning Tasks .15 

ElemeNet is designed to accommodate diverse prediction tasks across different chemical 

domains and target properties. Specifically, our framework supports both regression and 

classification tasks. For regression tasks, a model predicts continuous, real -valued properties 

(e.g., electronic energy, band gap, solubility) by applying a loss function directly to final -layer 

model outputs. For classification, ElemeNet supports both binary and multiclass prediction 

problems. In binary classification (e.g., predicting whether a molecule will be reactive or inert), a 

sigmoid activation function transforms final -layer logits to probabilities, with class membership 

determined by thresholding predictions at 0.5. Similarly in multiclass classification, a softmax 

activation function transforms logits into a length -K vector of per -class probabilities, with class 

membership assigned to the class with the highest predicted probability. All capabilities within 

ElemeNet, including featurization, model architectures, and hyperparameter tuning, are agnostic 

to task type and are equally supported for regression, binary classification, and multiclass 

problems. ElemeNet also supports multitask learning, in which a single shared encoder processes 

molecular features and generates learned representations, and multiple independent readout 

heads predict each target property from these shared embeddings. Multitask training is supported 

for both regression and binary classification problems. In both cases, the shared encoder and 

task -specific readout heads are trained jointly, with loss aggregated per -target for shared 

backpropagation. This approach exploits shared chemical structure and is particularly useful in 

the context of limited training data or correlated target properties 101 -105 (e.g., polarizability and 

solubility 106 , frontier orbital energies 48 ). 

Beyond task type (i.e., regression vs. classification), ElemeNet supports predictions 

across multiple scopes within a single molecular graph (Figure 2). Graph -level properties are the 

most common target in molecular machine learning, where a single target or set of targets is 16 

assigned to a single molecule (e.g., toxicity, total electronic energy). To obtain a molecule -level 

embedding from node -level representations, a pooling function is applied to aggregate 

contributions from each node into a fixed length vector for each molecule. The code supports 

node -level predictions corresponding to atom -centered targets (e.g., partial charges, condensed 

Fukui functions), which are defined similarly but with the absence of a pooling function used for 

graph -level targets. The permutation equivariance of graph neural networks without pooling 

results in a length -N vector of node -level predictions matching the order of atoms specified in the 

input molecule. 107 Finally, ElemeNet supports training models on bond -level targets (e.g., bond 

lengths, natural bond order outputs) through dedicated edge readout architectures. As the learned 

embeddings generated by message -passing are node -centered, an additional projection step is 

required to map these learned representations to edge -centered targets. ElemeNet accomplishes 

this through last -layer projection, in which edge features are concatenated to learned node 

embeddings for each edge (𝑖 , 𝑗 ) and passed through an MLP to generate bond -centered 

predictions. All existing model capabilities (e.g., transformer readout, shallow ensembles) are 

compatible with the edge -level architecture. 

While atom, bond, and molecule -level targets are ubiquitous in molecular machine 

learning, many properties of interest are localized to a specific chemical motif (i.e., "moiety"). 

Such targets exist in between the scope of single atoms and entire molecules. To accommodate 

this unique requirement, ElemeNet introduces moiety -level predictions, defined as a local 

subgraph centered on a central node index and extending to all atoms and bonds within a k-hop 

neighborhood (Figure 2). Node representations are updated by message -passing using the entire 

molecule as context, with loss localized to the target moiety by masking all atoms beyond the k-

hops subgraph. Within a defined chemical moiety, the target property may still be defined on a 17 

node, edge, or (sub)graph basis, where the set of nodes and edges is confined to those within the 

k-hops neighborhood. We note the distinction between this masked -subgraph -level inference and 

global graph -level inference, which places equal weight on all atomic neighborhoods rather than 

confining the loss to the chemically meaningful motif . Moiety -level predictions are particularly 

beneficial for chemistry, where target properties are often centered upon an atom, functional 

group, or active site of interest. Representative use cases include metal –ligand bonding 

interactions in transition metal complexes, physiochemical properties of specific functional 

groups (e.g., conformational strain, p Ka), and active site reactivity in enzyme models. Combined 

with support for multitask and multiscale learning, we anticipate the introduction of moiety -level 

targets will make ElemeNet particularly useful in molecular machine learning. 

3c. Uncertainty Quantification .

Uncertainty quantification (UQ) is a key component to machine learning workflows 

when it provides valuable insights regarding when model predictions are supported by training 

data. Bayesian approaches placing posterior distributions over model parameters are limited by 

their steep computational cost, while distribution -free uncertainty estimates are prone to being 

poorly calibrated with prediction error. 71 ElemeNet provides uncertainty estimates in two tiers. 

First, low -cost heuristic uncertainty measures are computed from a single forward pass during 

model training. Second, we implement a scalable ensemble -based approach that produces 

predictive uncertainties with minimal computational overhead (Figure 2). The first of the 

heuristic methods is latent space distance, a widely used uncertainty estimate popular for its 

simplicity of implementation and minimal computational cost. 64 -66,108 For a given molecule test -18 

set molecule 𝑥 ∗, the distance between its latent representation and the closest point 𝑥 in the 

training set latent space is the latent space distance. ElemeNet reports latent space distances in 

both Euclidean and cosine space, taken as the distance to the 𝑁 nearest training -set points in the 

learned embedding. Euclidean and cosine forms are both reported because embedding magnitude 

or direction may carry more information about novelty, depending on the encoder's 

regularization. While latent space distances have an intuitive interpretation (i.e., that a model is 

expected to perform best on test data "near" the training data), they are not considered a 

calibrated uncertainty metric, as they do not quantify expected error magnitude. They also do not 

impact the model training process, being calculated only during inference and going unused 

during backpropagation. It has been shown that latent distances can be partially calibrated 

against predictive error through engineering of the embedding metric or through post -hoc 

procedures. 67 However, these calibration steps are not part of the standard distance computation 

and require additional analysis applied to held -out data. As such, latent space distances are 

entirely reliant on the quality of the learned representation. 67 -69 For classification tasks, additional 

uncertainty metrics are available in the form of information entropy (i.e., the Shannon entropy of 

the predicted class distribution, eqn. 7). 109 For a K-class classifier with predicted probabilities 

𝑝 3(𝑥 ), entropy is defined as: 

𝐻 = − W 𝑝 3 log 𝑝 3

> 4
> 35'

(7)

Information entropy captures the notion that diffuse probability mass (i.e., predictions far from 0 

or 1) should be treated as more uncertain, and in practice serves as a useful heuristic for flagging 

low -confidence predictions. However, information entropy does not directly reflect predicted 

error magnitude – it is a property of the predicted distribution, not a calibrated measure of how 19 

often the model is right or wrong 110 -112 . Together, latent space distance and information entropy 

serve as rapid and informative diagnostics for uncertainty, they are heuristic measures of 

embedding -based novelty not tied to the training objective . For uncertainty quantification more 

formally grounded in predictive performance, we turn to ensemble -based approaches. 

Ensembles are widely recognized as among the most mathematically rigorous and 

empirically successful strategies for uncertainty quantification in deep learning. Fully Bayesian 

strategies that define posterior distributions over model parameters exhibit excellent calibration 

but are often infeasible due to the computational overhead of training multiple fully independent 

models. 72 -75,77,113 To achieve well -calibrated uncertainty estimates while avoiding the limitations 

of so -called deep ensembles, ElemeNet utilizes the recently introduced approach of using 

shallow ensembles to quantify prediction uncertainty. 76 In shallow ensembles, all network 

weights up to the penultimate layer are shared, while the final prediction layer is replicated 𝑁 

times (eqn. 8). The result is a model producing 𝑁 predictions for each input in a single forward 

pass: 

𝐲 > = {𝑦 >', 𝑦 >,, … , 𝑦 >6} (8)

where 𝑦 >/ is the prediction generated by ensemble member 𝑛 . Because only the final layer is 

replicated, computational overhead is small, while the diversity across heads provides a practical 

approximation to epistemic uncertainty. For a detailed derivation and benchmarking studies, the 

reader is referred to Kellner and Ceriotti. 76 

For regression tasks, ensemble predictions are interpreted as samples from a predictive 

distribution. We parameterize a Gaussian centered around the ensemble mean , 𝜇 , and assign a 

variance , 𝜎 ,, based on the spread across the 𝑁 prediction heads: 20 

𝜇 = 1

𝑁 W 𝑦 >/

> 6
> /5'

, 𝜎 ,(𝑥 ) = 1

𝑁 − 1 W(𝑦 >/ − 𝜇 ),

> 6
> /5'

+ 𝜖 (9)

with a small offset , 𝜖 , included for numerical stability (eqn. 9). The model is trained by 

minimizing the negative log -likelihood (NLL) of the observed regression targets under this 

Gaussian: 

ℒ788 = 1

2 clog 𝜎 , + (𝑦 − 𝜇 ),

𝜎 , + log 2𝜋 e (10 )

Dropping the constant ' 

> ,

log 2𝜋 term: 

ℒ788 = 1

2 clog 𝜎 , + (𝑦 − 𝜇 ),

𝜎 , e (11 )

where ℒ788 denotes the NLL loss . This formulation has an intuitive interpretation: the model is 

penalized both for being wrong and for having poorly calibrated uncertainties (i.e., predicting 

large 𝜎 , everywhere increases log 𝜎 ,, while predicting small 𝜎 , everywhere is penalized by the 

1/𝜎 , prefactor, eqn. 10 and 11). Unlike distance -based heuristics, the NLL objective directly ties 

the learned uncertainty to predictive performance during training, encouraging uncertainties that 

are meaningful with respect to observed errors. While latent space distance as a measure of 

distinctness of a test point to the embedding space can be effective at identifying out -of -

distribution inputs, it exhibits no formal relationship to error magnitude and depends entirely on 

the structure of the learned embedding space. In contrast, shallow -ensemble NLL regression 

yields a predictive distribution with a variance parameter optimized to reflect residual error. 

We compare the performance of ElemeNet regression models trained with and without 

shallow ensembles on both the QM9 47 and tmQMg 84 datasets and observe strong improvements 21 

in both error calibration and predictive accuracy (Figure 3). 2D GNN models with MLP and 

transformer readout and identical hyperparameters and data splits are trained without ensembles 

and with ensemble sizes of 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 to predict QM9 atomization energy 

(Supporting Information Table S 6 and S7 ). The same procedure is applied with EGNN models 

trained on tmQMg to predict the magnitude of the dipole (Supporting Information Table S 8 and 

S9 ). We compare the resulting models in terms of predictive performance and uncertainty 

calibration, defined as the Spearman rank correlation between an uncertainty metric and test -set 

mean absolute error (MAE). Spearman rank correlation is the standard metric in UQ literature 

because it makes no assumptions about whether the relationship between error and uncertainty is 

linear (i.e., homoscedastic) or nonlinear (i.e., heteroskedastic) . In both cases, we observe models 

trained with ensembles to exhibit error calibration exceeding latent space distance baselines 

(Figure 3). Prior work has observed increased performance of latent space distances when 

averaging among 𝑁 > 1 nearest neighbors. 64,65 As such, we calculate latent space calibration 

among 𝑁 nearest training -set neighbors, considering previously recommend values of 𝑁 = 10 

and 𝑁 = 200 in addition to the default value of 𝑁 = 1. In line with previous work, we observe 

that increasing 𝑁 generally yields increased calibration of latent space distance, though the 

results vary among dataset, architecture, and target property (Supporting Information Table S 6–

S9 ). 22 

Figure 3. Comparison of calibration and predictive performance in regression models trained 

with and without shallow ensembles. Results for multilayer perceptron (MLP) and transformer 

(TF) readout layers are shown separately. (a) Spearman rank correlation ( 𝜌 ) between ensemble 

standard deviation ( 𝜎 ) and mean absolute error (MAE) on QM9 atomization energy across 

ensemble sizes. Comparison is made to latent space distance baselines, with higher values 

indicating better calibration. (b) MAE of 2D GNN models trained on QM9 atomization energy 

compared against ensemble -free baselines. (c) Correlation between ensemble standard deviation 

and MAE on tmQMg dipole magnitude across ensemble sizes. Comparison is made to latent 

space distance baselines, with higher values indicating better calibration. (d) MAE of EGNN 

models trained on tmQMg dipole magnitude compared against ensemble -free baselines. 

A noteworthy finding is that increasing ensemble size also increases the calibration of 

latent space distance, suggesting that ensembling improves the calibration of multiple uncertainty 

metrics, though ensemble variance remains a more highly calibrated metric (Supporting 

Information Table S 6–S9 ). Models trained with NLL loss also exhibit MAE comparable to those 23 

of ensemble -free methods, indicating this increase in uncertainty calibration does not 

compromise predictive performance (Figure 3, Supporting Information Table S 6–S9 ). We note 

slightly increased errors in dipole for the tmQMg models, which may be attributable to the lack 

of hyperparameter tuning in any of these tests; these tests are deferred to further benchmarking 

studies (Section 3e ). In practice, we observed ensemble -based uncertainties to exhibit stronger 

correlation with error magnitude and result in better -performing models at a small increase to 

computational cost on most learning tasks (Supporting Information Table s S6–S9). 

The original work introducing direct propagation of shallow ensembles for uncertainty 

quantification was limited to regression tasks. In this work, we additionally explored extending 

the shallow ensemble framework to classification tasks. The most natural analogue of NLL 

regression to binary classification is to parameterize a Beta distribution from the mean and 

variance of ensemble predicted probabilities and minimize the negative log -likelihood during 

training. However, the resulting Beta -Bernoulli NLL can be shown to reduce exactly to binary 

cross -entropy (Supporting Information Text S4 ). Similarly for multiclass classification, 

parameterization of a Dirichlet distribution results in a Dirichlet -categorical loss equivalent to 

standard cross -entropy (Supporting Information Text S5 ). Unlike in the regression case, no 

variance term remains as each loss function collapses to cross -entropy , and the ensemble reduces 

to a mean prediction across heads (Supporting Information Text S4 and S5). UQ for 

classification tasks is better suited to a mean -of -probabilities (MoP) ensembling scheme ,114,115 in 

which each head produces a logit (binary) or logit vector (multiclass), which is passed through 

the task -specific readout activation function (i.e., sigmoid or softmax, eqn. 12 and 13) and 

averaged across heads: 24 

𝑝 ̂ = 1

𝑁 W sigmoid 9𝑙 p/<

> 6
> /5'

, binary (12 )

𝐩 u = 1

𝑁 W softmax 9𝐥 p/<

> 6
> /5'

, multiclass (13 )

where 𝑝 ̂ and 𝐩 u are predicted binary and per -class probabilities, 𝑙 p and 𝐥 p are predicted binary and 

per -class logits, and 𝑁 is the number of ensemble heads. The model is then trained on standard 

binary or categorical cross -entropy applied to this mean prediction. This formulation has two 

important properties. First, because aggregation occurs in probability space rather than logit 

space, every ensemble head receives independent gradient signal through the chain rule, avoiding 

the gradient collapse of NLL -style ensemble classifiers. Second, by Jensen's inequality, mean -of -

probabilities is in general not equal to a sigmoid - or softmax -of -mean and is instead pulled 

toward the uniform distribution when heads disagree. 116,117 MoP therefore softens overconfident 

predictions where the ensemble disagrees while preserving sharp predictions where it agrees. As 

a per -prediction uncertainty estimate, the probability -space ensemble standard deviation 𝜎 9 is 

reported alongside the mean prediction. 

We next tested whether MoP offers any measurable benefit to models trained with 

standard cross -entropy loss. We repeated our above analysis by training a series of 2D GNN 

models with MLP and transformer readouts on the classification tasks of coordinating atoms 

(binary) and coordination number (multitask) prediction on the pydentate dataset, sweeping 

across the ensemble sizes ranging from 2 to 64 (Figure 4). We use splits derived from previous 

work 85 (i.e., dropping the 0. 1% of ligands which were unparsable, Supporting Information Table 25 

S10 ), omitting all ligands with phosphorous coordinating atoms to curate a held -out set of out -of -

distribution (OOD) molecules (Supporting Information Table S 11 and S12 ). 

Figure 4. Comparison of calibration and predictive performance of classification models trained 

with and without shallow ensembles. Results for multilayer perceptron (MLP) and transformer 

(TF) readout layers are shown separately. (a) Expected calibration error (ECE) between 

confidence and accuracy of predicted probabilities on pydentate coordination number across 

various ensemble sizes. Comparison is made to cross -entropy baselines, with lower values 

indicating better calibration. (b) accuracy of 2D GNN models trained on pydentate coordination 

number compared against cross -entropy baselines. 

Across binary and multiclass classification benchmarks, MoP matches standard cross -

entropy baselines on predictive accuracy and area under the receiver operating characteristic 

(AUROC) at ensemble sizes from 𝑁 = 2 to 𝑁 = 64 (Supporting Information Table S 11 and 

S12 ). This confirms that the additional last -layer width does not destabilize training. Meanwhile, 

uncertainty calibration under MoP improves substantially on both in -distribution and out -of -

distribution (OOD) data (Figure 4). We judge ensemble performance through expected 

calibration error (ECE), which is a standard metric for quantifying the miscalibration of deep 

learning models. For multiclass classification with transformer readouts with 64 heads, MoP 

reduces ECE by 57% relative to standard cross -entropy on the in -distribution test set and 34% on 26 

set -aside OOD data (Supporting Information Table S 12 ). Nevertheless, this observation is 

sensitive to the number of heads and is not monotonic (Supporting Information Table S12). 

Because MoP is rank -preserving in expectation, AUROC -based metrics for misclassification 

detection and OOD identification are unchanged relative to standard cross -entropy. The 

improvement is in probability calibration, useful for learning tasks when predicted probabilities 

will be subjected to threshold -based decision making, such as in variable -threshold evaluation 

metrics 57 -61 , active learning 62 , and reinforcement learning 63 . We therefore recommend the MoP 

metric introduced here as an effective shallow -ensemble analogue to NLL -regression. 

3d. Software Overview .

To maximize usability among diverse chemical elements and domains, ElemeNet is 

compatible with most common molecular structure formats. 2D molecular graph s provided in cif, 

cml, mol, mol2, sdf, SMILES, and xyz formats are all supported. Similarly, 3D molecular graph 

input formats are also supported for all of these file formats, with the exception of SMILES 

strings, which by definition encode only 2D connectivity. In the case of xyz files, which 

represent 3D coordinates without bonding information, connectivity is inferred from pairwise 

distances between atoms and a predefined dictionary of bonding thresholds (Supporting 

Information Text S 1). The mol_to_graph function handles the conversion of molecular graph 

strings into ElemeNet graph objects . ElemeNet supports the use of either explicit or implicit 

hydrogen atoms , and optional node and edge features extracted by RDKit are also available 

(Supporting Information Table S 13 ). 27 

Inspired by recent work on resonance -invariant graph representations 118 , bond order 

information may be optionally dropped . After constructing a graph object, node, edge, and 

graph -level attributes are added (Supporting Information Table S14 ). Different function s are 

responsible for defining the initial node, edge, and graph representations for a given molecule, 

and support the specification of additional user -provided features at the atom (e.g., partial 

charges), bond (e.g., Wiberg bond indices), or molecule (e.g., solubility) level. Additionally, 

molecular charge and spin multiplicity may be specified as user -provided inputs at the graph 

level (Supporting Information Table S 14 ). I n the absence of user -provided charge and spin 

information, these variables are inferred from the number of electrons by assuming neutral atoms 

and a low -spin state for the overall molecule. 

The code reads a ll molecular graph inputs and target properties from a .csv file, where the 

columns containing the molecular graph s, target properties, and user -provided features are 

specified as inputs (Supporting Information Table S 14 ). ElemeNet supports the specification of 

predefined training, validation, and test sets provided as separate .csv files. A single .csv 

containing the full dataset and a specified training, validation, and test split is also supported. In 

the case of imbalanced datasets for classification tasks, ElemeNet supports the optional 

preser vation of the distribution of class labels in the full dataset when splitting the data into 

training, validation, and test sets. Additionally, the user may specify the data split (e.g., all in 

train, or all in test). This is particularly useful in the case of high similarity among data points, 

where the inclusion of similar molecules in training and test splits may result in data leakage and 

artificially inflated test set performance. 

Model construction relies on an encoder and readout routine where the graph neural 

networks and multilayer perceptron or transformer architectures are defined, respectively 28 

(Supporting Information Table S 14 ). Once the encoder and readout configuration s are defined, 

the combined network is built , defining masks as necessary to subselect nodes, edges, and 

subgraphs for atom, bond, and moiety -level predictions (Figure 5). The constructed model is then 

trained by a routine that accepts the model, optimizer, and loss configurations as inputs (Figure 

5). Supported optimizers include stochastic gradient descent (SGD) and adaptive moment 

estimation with decoupled weight decay (AdamW) , among others (Supporting Information Table 

S14 ). Numerous l oss functions are also defined, and include mean squared error, mean absolute 

error, binary cross -entropy, and cross -entropy. Ensemble -based loss functions are additionally 

defined for regression, binary classification , and multiclass classification tasks (Supporting 

Information Table S 14 ). Bayesian hyperparameter optimization is carried out over a space of 

encoder and readout hyperparameters by default (Figure 5). For a cursory, less rigorous 

hyperparameter search, an available flag restricts the space of hyperparameters over which 

optimization is performed (Supporting Information Table S15 ). 29 

Figure 5. Block flowchart structure of the ElemeNet codebase. The four subsections with dotted 

outlines correspond to wrapper functions (gray), preprocessing (orange), model training (blue), 

and inference (green). Within each of the four subsections, key functions and classes are shown 

in gray with their corresponding module files in parentheses. For example, the DataModule 

class for creating graph objects is defined in the elemenet.data module. Inputs and logical 

flow for training_pipeline and inference_pipeline are colored separately in blue and 

green, respectively. Operations shared between the two pipelines are indicated with black 

arrows. Hyperparameter optimization is optional and gated by a yellow diamond. When active, 

the optimize function is called to iteratively train and evaluate models with different 

hyperparameters. When inactive, optimize is bypassed and a single production model is 

trained. Outputs to preprocessing, model training, and inference are stored separately in the 

data/ , checkpoints/ , and stats/ directories. 

ElemeNet offers two wrapper functions for end -to -end training and inference pipelines. 

The first is training_pipeline , which wraps all preprocessing, hyperparameter optimization, 

and model training steps and keywords in a single function (Figure 5). The second wrapper is 

inference_pipeline , which preprocesses a given dataset and runs inference using a trained 

model, returning model predictions, evaluation metrics (e.g., mean -squared error, accuracy), and 

uncertainties (e.g., standard deviation, latent space distances, information entropy) associated 

with each prediction (Supporting Information Tables S16 and S17 ). Both are available through 

the command -line interface. The command elemenet_train requires only a .yaml file 

specifying the model configuration (Supporting Information Table S14 ). The command 

elemenet_inference accepts paths specifying the trained model and where to save inference 

results along with the target property, the molecular graph label , and graph format. Fine -tuning 

of a pretrained model is also easily accessible from the command line via a resume feature. 

ElemeNet relies on several key external packages for preprocessing, training, and 

hyperparameter optimization. Molecular structure inputs are generally parsed within ElemeNet ,

with the exception of SMILES strings which are read using RDKit 81 and cif files in which the 

periodic coordinates are handled by molSimplify 119 . ElemeNet is built on PyTorch Geometric 79 ,30 

while Bayesian optimization over a defined hyperparameter space is performed with Optuna 80 .

ElemeNet also supports distributed training across multiple GPUs for accelerated 

hyperparameter tuning and model training. 

3e. Benchmarking Studies .

To evaluate the performance of ElemeNet on property prediction tasks across diverse 

chemical domains, we select four representative datasets from organic, inorganic, coordination, 

and biological chemistry encompassing graph -, node -, edge -, and subgraph -level prediction 

targets. Our objective is to show that models competitive with the state of the art can be trained 

across each of these settings using a single unified codebase with minimal user effort. More 

precise fine -tuning beyond that carried out here would likely be necessary to obtain state -of -the -

art performance on an individual dataset. Accordingly, all hyperparameter searches were limited 

(i.e., only 25 trials of 100 epochs each), and we did not separately tune hyperparameters for 

every architecture -dataset combination. More rigorous searches with larger batch sizes and 

longer training would yield further improvements. Production models trained with ElemeNet 

should deploy such practices. 

We first consider QM9, a widely used DFT dataset of 133,885 organic molecules 

containing up to nine heavy atoms (C, N, O, F). 47 We separately train models to predict 

atomization energy, HOMO -LUMO gap, dipole magnitude, and polarizability. We vary both the 

encoder (2D or E(3) -equivariant GNN) and readout (MLP or transformer) architecture. We 

additionally consider all model configurations with and without shallow ensembles, resulting in 

32 total baselines reported (i.e., four architectures, two loss functions, four target properties). For 

each combination, hyperparameters are selected for each model against validation loss, and the 31 

identified optimal configuration is retrained with early stopping (see Methods). To benchmark 

against an established machine learning workflow for organic chemistry, we compare to 

Chemprop, and we use the same data splits reported by Heid et al. 51,52 For each 2D GNN 

considered, we compare the performance of models trained with and without optional SMILES 

features, reporting the results of the best -performing model with predictions averaged across a 

deep ensemble of 5 models manually prepared and trained using five different random seeds ,

emulating the procedure performed in the reported Chemprop baselines (see Methods, 

Supporting Information Table S13 ). 51,52 

The full comparison of model architectures across QM9 reveals two consistent trends. 

First, the EGNN encoder substantially outperforms the 2D GNN on all target properties, with the 

effect being most pronounced for target properties where 3D geometry is expected to be 

important. The best -performing EGNN outperforms the corresponding most accurate 2D GNN 

by a factor of only 1.6 for HOMO -LUMO gap, while MAEs are reduced by over sixfold for the 

dipole by the EGNN (Table 1). This trend is consistent with chemica l intuition, as dipole is 

highly dependent on three -dimensional structure that a 2D topological representation cannot 

fully encode. Second, shallow ensembling is generally observed to result in slight increases in 

MAE for some properties (e.g., atomization energy), reinforcing tradeoffs documented in the 

literature between test -set accuracy and calibrated uncertainty (Table 1). Nevertheless, for other 

properties, ensemble mean errors are lower than those obtained without ensembling (Table 1). 

We note that the hyperparameters of all models were optimized separately but with equal search 

spaces and maximum allowed trials, making direct comparisons difficult. Evaluating the effect of 

ensemble size under a fixed model architecture revealed consistent benefits to training under the 

shallow ensemble paradigm (Figures 3 and 4). As ensemble -based methods exhibit increased 32 

variance, an increased optimization budget is recommended for production models trained with 

shallow ensembles. 

Table 1. QM9 property prediction performance for all combinations of encoder (2D GNN, 

EGNN), readout (MLP, TF), and shallow ensemble size (1, 16). All values are test -set MAEs on 

the splits of Heid et al. 51 Hyperparameters were optimized for each combination over 25 trials of 

100 epochs each. Each model was trained with the optimal configuration for up to 1,000 epochs 

with early stopping. Chemprop model performance is from Heid and Graff et al. 51,52 Chemprop 

dipole and polarizability were reported using a multitask model. The b est -performing ElemeNet 

model for each task is bolded.                                                               

> encoder readout ensemble
> size
> atomization energy
> (kcal/mol)
> HOMO -LUMO gap
> (hartree)
> dipole
> (debye)
> polarizability
> (bohr 3)
> 2D GNN MLP 11.15 4.05 ×10 -30.441 0.322
> 2D GNN MLP 16 1.35 4.19 ×10 -30.401 0.271
> 2D GNN TF 11.08 3.79 ×10 -30.373 0.248
> 2D GNN TF 16 1.16 4.20 ×10 -30. 431 0.243
> EGNN MLP 10.39 2. 17 ×10 -30.109 0.102
> EGNN MLP 16 0.55 2.82 ×10 -30.092 0. 104
> EGNN TF 10.84 2.51 ×10 -30.060 0.197
> EGNN TF 16 0.55 2.81 ×10 -30. 077 0.116
> Chemprop v1 (2D) 1.11 3.14 ×10 -30.326 0.231
> Chemprop v2 (2D) 1.02 3.12 ×10 -30.339 0.227

Selecting the best model per target, we find that ElemeNet is competitive with both the 

original (v1) and most recent (v2) releases of Chemprop. Our 2D GNNs are competitive with the 

corresponding Chemprop models on all properties, while our model trained with transformer 

readout outperforms Chemprop v1 on atomization energy, highlighting the benefits of attention 

mechanisms in molecular property prediction ( Figure 6, Table 1). Our 3D models outperform all 

Chemprop baselines across all four target properties considered (Table 1). We note that the 33 

Chemprop dipole and polarizability values are only reported using a single multitask model 51,52 ,

whereas the ElemeNet results are obtained from single -task training. 

Figure 6. Representative test -set p erformance of ElemeNet models trained across diverse 

chemical domains and property prediction tasks. (a) Parity plot of a model (2D GNN encoder, 

transformer readout) trained on QM9 to predict atomization energy from SMILES inputs. (b) 

Parity plot of a model (EGNN encoder, transformer readout) trained on tmQMg to predict 

polarizability from xyz inputs. (c) Confusion matrix of a model (2D encoder, MLP readout, 16 

last -layer ensembles) trained on the pydentate dataset to predict coordination number from 

SMILES inputs. (d) Performance of a model (EGNN encoder, transformer readout, 16 last -layer 

ensembles) trained on GEMS to predict electronic energy from xyz inputs. Insets depict 

representative molecules and corresponding true and predicted properties. Atoms are colored as 

follows: H in white, C in gray, N in blue, O in red, Cr in light blue. 

We next consider tmQMg 84 , a dataset of transition metal complexes extracted from the 

Cambridge Structural Database 83 and optimized with DFT, to evaluate ElemeNet on inorganic 

chemistry where 3D structure and metal coordination heavily influence properties. We evaluate 

performance on HOMO -LUMO gap, dipole, and polarizability, again comparing the same 34 

combinations of encoders, readouts, and ensembles. To alleviate the computational burden of 

exhaustive hyperparameter optimization and investigate the transferability of hyperparameters 

across model architectures, we tune hyperparameters only for the 2D GNN. We then transfer the 

optimal values to the EGNN with MLP readout, setting EGNN -specific parameters absent from 

the 2D search space to their defaults (see Methods). For the EGNN with transformer readout, we 

simply utilize the default hyperparameters in ElemeNet to evaluate performance under system 

defaults. To illustrate ElemeNet’s multitask capability, we additionally train a single EGNN 

model with transformer readout on all three targets simultaneously (denoted EGNN*). This 

configuration is intended as a capability demonstration rather than a competitive single -task 

baseline. 

Similar to the QM9 tests, the EGNN encoder outperforms the 2D GNN on every target, 

reinforcing the value of 3D -aware representations for transition metal chemistry. Ensembling 

provides marginal and inconsistent gains at this dataset size and hyperparameter search depth. 

The multitask EGNN* achieves accuracy within a factor of two of the dedicated single -task 

EGNN models on each target, despite using default hyperparameters and no architecture -specific 

tuning (Table 2). We next compared the best ElemeNet 2D and 3D models to the performance of 

the 3D architectures benchmarked by Kneiding et al., which span a range of representations 

including line -graph models and spherical harmonic equivariant networks. 84 We observed the 

best -performing ElemeNet outperforms the average tmQMg model on HOMO -LUMO gap 

(8.37 ×10 -3 vs. 0.0104 hartree MAE ), the dipole (0.97 vs. 1. 10 debye MAE) and polarizability 

(5.34 vs. 5. 62 bohr 3 MAE) target properties (Table 2 , Figure 6 , Supporting Information Table 

S18 ). 84 Given that no architecture - or dataset -specific tuning was performed on the EGNN, this 35 

out -of -the -box performance indicates that ElemeNet may serve as a competitive baseline for 

inorganic property prediction with minimal user effort. 

Table 2. tmQMg property prediction performance for all considered model architectures. All 

values are test -set MAEs on the splits of Kneiding et al. 84 EGNN* denotes a single multitask 

model trained on all three targets simultaneously. Each model was trained for up to 1,000 epochs 

with early stopping. The best -performing ElemeNet model for each task is bolded.                                                    

> encoder readout ensemble size
> HOMO -LUMO gap
> (hartree )
> dipole
> (debye)
> polarizability
> (bohr 3)
> 2D GNN MLP 10.0103 1.86 9.36
> 2D GNN MLP 16 0.0109 1.87 8.99
> 2D GNN TF 10.0104 1.80 8.39
> 2D GNN TF 16 0.0118 2.04 9.49
> EGNN MLP 18.37 ×10 -30.97 5.59
> EGNN MLP 16 0.0101 1.22 8.76
> EGNN TF 10.0100 1.23 5.34
> EGNN TF 16 0.0123 1.6 06.86
> EGNN* TF 16 0.0120 1.78 8.05
> tmQMg (3D)
> 7.72 ×10 -3–0.0126
> (0.0 10 0average )
> 0. 71 –1.45
> (1.1 0average )
> 4.83 –6.81
> (5. 62 average )

To evaluate ElemeNet on tasks other than molecule -level property prediction, we 

benchmark against the pydentate dataset used to train models for predicting metal –ligand 

coordination. 85 While the original dataset included only graph -level (coordination number) and 

node -level (coordinating atoms) targets, we extend the dataset here to include additional targets 

by computing all bond lengths (i.e., an edge -level target) and metal –ligand bond lengths (i.e., a 

subgraph -level target) for each entry. Because the published pydentate models are 2D, and the 36 

inclusion of 3D information already specifies bond lengths, we restrict the comparison to 2D 

GNN encoders. With these 2D GNNs, we evaluate both MLP and transformer readouts with and 

without shallow ensembles (Table 3). For coordinating atom and coordination number 

classification, the performance of our ElemeNet models is comparable to the published pydentate 

models (Table 3 , Figure 6 ). The transformer readout improved the balanced accuracy on 

coordinating atom prediction from 92.4% to 96.1%, approaching the pydentate value of 96.9%. 

Similarly, the model trained with MLP readout exhibits an 84.5% accuracy in coordination 

number prediction, while the use of attention via the transformer readout improves performance 

to 86.6%, within 1.9% of the pydentate baseline (Table 3). For bond length and metal –ligand 

bond length regression, no baselines from the original pydentate work are available. ElemeNet 's 

achieves an MAE of 0.0206 Å on all bond lengths (i.e., an edge -level prediction task) and 0.0505 

Å on metal –ligand bond lengths (i.e., a subgraph -level prediction tasks) , establishing reference 

values for these previously unbenchmarked targets (Table 3). The use of shallow ensembles in 

both regression and classification tasks is observed to have a small impact on performance, 

reaffirming prior observations on the benefit of increased hyperparameter trials when training 

with ensemble -based architectures (Figure 6) .

Table 3. Pydentate dataset performance for the 2D GNN encoder with MLP and TF readouts 

across node -, graph -, edge -, and subgraph -level targets. Coordinating atom predictions report 

both raw and class -balanced accuracy. Bond length and metal –ligand bond length results (MAE) 

were not reported in the original pydentate work and constitute new benchmarks. All values are 

test -set metrics on the splits of Toney et al. 85 Hyperparameters are optimized for 25 trials of 100 

epochs each. Each production model is trained for up to 1,000 epochs with early stopping. The 

best -performing ElemeNet model for each task is bolded.           

> encoder readout ensemble
> size
> coord .atoms
> (% accuracy/balanced)
> coord .number
> (% accuracy)
> bond lengths
> (angstroms)
> metal –ligand
> bond lengths
> (angstroms)
> 2D GNN MLP 197.6/92.4 84.5 0.0208 0.0604

37                       

> 2D GNN MLP 16 97.6/92.0 86.6 0.0211 0.0607
> 2D GNN TF 198.5 /96.1 86.6 0.0206 0.0505
> 2D GNN TF 16 98.4/95.7 82.7 0.0210 0.0512
> pydentate (2D) 98.8/96.9 88.5 ------

Finally, to assess ElemeNet at scale and on biological chemistry, we train on the GEMS 

dataset of 2.7 million biomolecular fragments with geometries sampled from molecular 

dynamics trajectories and with DFT -calculated properties. 86 Existing published work on GEMS 

reports machine -learning force fields rather than direct property prediction, so no comparable 

literature baseline is available. 86,120 We therefore present ElemeNet results to demonstrate that 

our workflow scales to multi -million -entry datasets. Motivated by the geometric sensitivity of 

the targets and the efficacy of attention mechanisms observed on the QM9, tmQMg, and 

pydentate baselines, we restrict our analysis to the EGNN encoder with transformer readout and 

compare models trained with and without ensembling. Hyperparameter optimization is 

impractical at this size with the compute resources available, so default hyperparameters are used 

throughout. 

ElemeNet trains stably on GEMS and yields competitive performance across tasks. The 

range in model performance spans 0.091 –0.119 eV MAE in energy and 0.12 –0.13 debye MAE in 

dipole magnitude (Table 4 , Figure 6 ). Relative atomization energies are not reported in the initial 

GEMS dataset but are computed here for all structures using the workflow developed in previous 

work 50 (Supporting Information Text S 6). For this quantity, we achieve MAEs on the order of 

1.0 ×10 -3 eV/(mol g). Shallow ensembling is observed to moderately improve performance 

across all three prediction tasks, underscoring our prior observations that , under a fixed 38 

architecture and set of hyperparameters, ensemble -based training generally improves both 

predictive accuracy and uncertainty calibration (Table 3 and Figures 3 –4). These results 

highlight that our workflows scale to datasets typical of foundation model training without 

modification. 

Table 4. GEMS property prediction performance for the EGNN encoder with transformer 

readout, with and without shallow ensembling. Default hyperparameters were used due to the 

computational cost of hyperparameter tuning on this dataset scale (2.7M molecules). Each model 

was trained for up to 2,000 epochs with early stopping. The best -performing ElemeNet model for 

each task is bolded.             

> encoder readout ensemble
> size
> electronic energy
> (eV)
> dipole
> (debye)
> relative atomization
> energy
> (eV/mol g)
> EGNN TF 10.119 0.13 3.75 ×10 -3
> EGNN TF 16 0. 091 0.12 3.61 ×10 -3

We additionally perform an ablation study on charge and spin to determine the utility of 

the explicit charge and spin encoding supported natively in ElemeNet . Due to the prevalence of 

charged species in the overall dataset (i.e., 36 % of the 2.7M total entries ), we expect GEMS to be 

an excellent test case indicating the utility of our dedicated charge -spin neural network. We 

identify all charged structures in the GEMS test set and run inference on each model separately 

with the true charges . We compare the resulting summary statistics to the output of running 

inference with all entries intentionally mislabeled as neutral (Supporting Information Table S 19) .

The resulting increased MAE in all cases indicates the utility of our explicit embedding scheme .

Taken together, these benchmarks demonstrate that ElemeNet produces performant 

property prediction models across organic, inorganic, coordination, and biological chemistry and 

across graph -, node -, edge -, and subgraph -level targets using a single unified workflow. While 39 

production deployments would benefit from longer training, larger bat ch sizes, and more 

rigorous hyperparameter optimization, the results presented here are obtained with deliberately 

modest compute budgets and establish that ElemeNet provides competitive baselines with 

minimal user effort. 

4. Conclusions 

In summary, we developed the ElemeNet software package for training and using 

advanced machine learning (ML) models with support for molecules with elemental 

compositions across the periodic table. This software was designed to make ML model training 

accessible for researchers in the chemical and physical sciences without extensive training in 

computation and ML. We designed ElemeNet to support common 2D and 3D molecular 

representations, including SMILES, mol2, and xyz formats, and define initial representations 

compatible with elements 1 –100. This enables the development of ML models for systems that 

defy traditional covalent bonding descriptions. Optional graph -level encodings we developed 

enable the training of models which predict properties as explicit functions of molecular charge 

and spin. The code was built to support regression and classification targets in both single - and 

multitask contexts, enabling multiscale predictions on atomic (node), bond (edge), molecular 

(graph), and our newly introduced moiety (subgraph) targets. State -of -the -art E(3) equivariant 

and attention mechanisms were included through EGNN and transformer architectures, in 

addition to 2D GNN and MLP models. Uncertainty quantification by shallow ensembles and 

latent space distance were made available for all model architectures. Our codebase is 

parallelizable across multiple GPUs. We showed through benchmarking studies on 

representative datasets from organic, inorganic, coordination, and biological chemistry that 

ElemeNet models exhibit strong performance even at the scale of millions of molecules. Across 40 

these broad tests, ElemeNet either matches or exceeds nearly all literature baselines. We 

anticipate that ElemeNet will reduce the barrier to entry in ML for chemistry, democratizing the 

training and use of advanced machine learning models across the periodic table. 

AUTHOR INFORMATION 

Corresponding Author 

*email:hjkulik@mit.edu 

Author Contributions 

CRediT: Jacob W . Toney: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal Analysis, Investigation, 

Methodology, Software, Validation, Visualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & 

editing; Samir Darouich: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal Analysis, Investigation, 

Methodology, Software, Validation, Writing – review & editing; Yiran Wang: Investigation, 

Software, Validation; Aaron G . Garrison: Investigation, Software; Johannes Kästner: Funding 

acquisition, Supervision; Heather J . Kulik: Conceptualization, Funding acquisition, Project 

administration, Resources, Supervision, Writing – review & editing .

Notes 

The authors declare no competing financial interest. 

ASSOCIATED CONTENT 

Supporting Information . Initial node representations used by encoder ; initial edge 

representations used by encoder ; bond interpretation scheme ; charge and spin determination 

scheme ; charge and spin embedding scheme ; optional bulk features used in initial 

representations ; optional xTB features used in initial representations ; full space of 

hyperparameters considered ; performance and calibration of QM9 atomization energy model 

ensembles ; performance and calibration of QM9 gap model ensembles ; performance and 

calibration of tmQMg dipole model ensembles ; performance and calibration of tmQMg gap 

model ensembles ; binary classification ensemble reduction to binary cross -entropy ; multiclass 41 

classification ensemble reduction to multiclass cross -entropy ; li st of unparsable SMILES in the 

pydentate dataset ; performance and calibration of binary pydentate model ensembles ;

performance and calibration of multiclass pydentate model ensembles ; optional RDKit features 

used in initial representations ; r elevant functions, keywords, and commands defined within 

ElemeNet ; r estricted space of hyperparameters considered during "quicksearch" ; e valuation 

metrics available in ElemeNet ; u ncertainty metrics available in ElemeNet ; r esults of 3D GNN 

models reported in original tmQMg work ; p rocedure used to calculate atomization energies for 

the GEMS dataset ; charge -spin encoding ablation study . (PDF) 

This material is available free of charge via the Internet at http://pubs.acs.org. 

Data and Software Availability Statement 

The ElemeNet codebase is available publicly via GitHub at https://github.com/hjkgrp/Elem eNet .

All data required to reproduce this work is provided either in the Supporting Information PDF 

file or in the Zenodo repository .121 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

Funding was primarily provided by a UPI from The Dow Chemical Company. J.W.T. was 

partially supported by a Leslye Miller Fraser and Darryl M. Fraser Fellowship from the MIT 

School of Engineering. H.J.K. is supported by a Simon Family Faculty Research Innovation 

Fund and an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship in Chemistry. S.D. was partially funded by the Ministry 

of Science, Research and the Arts Baden -Wuerttemberg in the Artificial Intelligence Software 

Academy (AISA ) and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG , German Research 

Foundation) EXC2075 – 390740016 under Germany's Excellence Strategy. S. D. thank s IMPRS -

IS (International Max Planck Research School for Intelligent Systems) for the support . The 

authors acknowledge the MIT SuperCloud and Lincoln Laboratory Supercomputing Center and 

MIT Office of Research Computing and Data for providing HPC resources that have contributed 

to the research results reported in this work. The authors thank Adam H. Steeves and Mathias 

Niepert for providing a critical reading of the manuscript. Finally, t he authors thank Heecheol 42 

Jang , Akash K. Ball, Changhwan Oh, Sebastian G. Pujet, and Teya S. Bergamaschi for valuable 

technical discussions and scientific insights .

REFERENCES 

(1) Evans, M. G.; Polanyi, M. Some Applications of the Transition State Method to the 

Calculation of Reaction Velocities, Especially in Solution. Trans. Faraday Soc. 1935, 31 ,

875 -894. 

(2) Hammett, L. P. Some Relations between Reaction Rates and Equilibrium Constants. 

Chem Rev 1935, 17 , 125 -136. 

(3) Hammett, L. P. The Effect of Structure Upon the Reactions of Organic Compounds. 

Benzene Derivatives. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1937, 59 , 96 -103. 

(4) Hansch, C.; Leo, A.; Taft, R. W. A Survey of Hammett Substituent Constants and 

Resonance and Field Parameters. Chem Rev 1991, 91 , 165 -195. 

(5) Fey, N. The Contribution of Computational Studies to Organometallic Catalysis: 

Descriptors, Mechanisms and Models. Dalton Trans 2010, 39 , 296 -310. 

(6) Pirhadi, S.; Shiri, F.; Ghasemi, J. B. Multivariate Statistical Analysis Methods in Qsar. 

RSC Adv 2015, 5, 104635 -104665. 

(7) Ahneman, D. T.; Estrada, J. G.; Lin, S.; Dreher, S. D.; Doyle, A. G. Predicting Reaction 

Performance in C –N Cross -Coupling Using Machine Learning. Science 2018, 360 , 186 -

190. 

(8) Durand, D. J.; Fey, N. Computational Ligand Descriptors for Catalyst Design. Chem Rev 

2019, 119 , 6561 -6594. 

(9) Reid, J. P.; Proctor, R. S. J.; Sigman, M. S.; Phipps, R. J. Predictive Multivariate Linear 

Regression Analysis Guides Successful Catalytic Enantioselective Minisci Reactions of 

Diazines. J Am Chem Soc 2019, 141 , 19178 -19185. 

(10) Durand, D. J.; Fey, N. Building a Toolbox for the Analysis and Prediction of Ligand and 

Catalyst Effects in Organometallic Catalysis. Acc Chem Res 2021, 54 , 837 -848. 

(11) Żurański, A. M.; Alvarado, J. I. M.; Shields, B. J.; Doyle, A. G. Predicting Reaction 

Yields Via Supervised Learning. Acc Chem Res 2021, 54 , 1856 -1865. 

(12) Crawford, J. M.; Kingston, C.; Toste, F. D.; Sigman, M. S. Data Science Meets Physical 

Organic Chemistry. Acc Chem Res 2021, 54 , 3136 -3148. 

(13) Williams, W. L.; Zeng, L.; Gensch, T.; Sigman, M. S.; Doyle, A. G.; Anslyn, E. V. The 

Evolution of Data -Driven Modeling in Organic Chemistry. ACS Cent Sci 2021, 7, 1622 -

1637. 

(14) Butler, K. T.; Davies, D. W.; Cartwright, H.; Isayev, O.; Walsh, A. Machine Learning for 

Molecular and Materials Science. Nature 2018, 559 , 547 -555. 

(15) Mater, A. C.; Coote, M. L. Deep Learning in Chemistry. J Chem Inf Model 2019, 59 ,

2545 -2559. 

(16) Keith, J. A.; Vassilev -Galindo, V.; Cheng, B.; Chmiela, S.; Gastegger, M.; Müller, K. -R.; 

Tkatchenko, A. Combining Machine Learning and Computational Chemistry for 

Predictive Insights into Chemical Systems. Chem Rev 2021, 121 , 9816 -9872. 43 

(17) Rupp, M.; Tkatchenko, A.; Müller, K. -R.; Lilienfeld, O. A. v. Fast and Accurate 

Modeling of Molecular Atomization Energies with Machine Learning. Phys Rev Lett 

2012, 108 .

(18) Weininger, D. Smiles, a Chemical Language and Information System. 1. Introduction to 

Methodology and Encoding Rules. J Chem Inf Comput Sci 1988, 28 , 31 -36. 

(19) Ramakrishnan, R.; Lilienfeld, O. A. v. In Reviews in Computational Chemistry ; Parrill, 

Abby L.;Lipkowitz, Kenny B., Eds., 2017; Vol. 30 

(20) Nandy, A.; Duan, C.; Taylor, M. G.; Liu, F.; Steeves, A. H.; Kulik, H. J. Computational 

Discovery of Transition -Metal Complexes: From High -Throughput Screening to Machine 

Learning. Chem Rev 2021, 121 , 9927 -10000. 

(21) Wigh, D. S.; Goodman, J. M.; Lapkin, A. A. A Review of Molecular Representation in 

the Age of Machine Learning. WIREs Comput Mol Sci 2022, 12 .

(22) Zhang, Z.; Bai, J.; Nakamura, Y.; Wang, A.; Leong, S. X.; Zhang, S.; Chen, P.; Lo, A.; 

Müller, M.; Tom, G.; Huang, M.; Mantilla, L.; Kang, Y.; Bernales, V.; Aspuru -Guzik, A. 

Molecular Knowledge Representations in the Era of Artificial Intelligence. ChemRxiv 

2026 , DOI:10.26434/chemrxiv.15002830/v1 10.26434/chemrxiv.15002830/v1. 

(23) Kevlishvili, I.; Dorabawila, D. Taming T -REX : A Canonical Language for Geometry -

Aware Generative Design of Transition -Metal Complexes. Digital Discovery 2026 ,

DOI:10.1039/D6DD00129G 10.1039/D6DD00129G. 

(24) Janet, J. P.; Kulik, H. J. Resolving Transition Metal Chemical Space: Feature Selection 

for Machine Learning and Structure –Property Relationships. J Phys Chem A 2017, 121 ,

8939 -8954. 

(25) Vogiatzis, K. D.; Corminboeuf, C.; Nova, A.; Jorner, K.; Kästner, J.; Meuwly, M.; 

Schwaller, P.; Böttcher, V.; Drosou, M.; Fako, E.; Hoppe, H.; Ivkovic, Z.; Iwanojko, N.; 

Pantazis, D. A.; Schmid, S. P.; Szenes, K.; Tetenoire, A.; Reiher*, M. Boosting 

Computational Catalysis and Chemical Reactivity with Artificial Intelligence. J Am 

Chem Soc 2026, 148 , 9143 -9155. 

(26) Shi, Y. -F.; Yang, Z. -X.; Ma, S.; Kang, P. -L.; Shang, C.; Hu, P.; Liu, Z. -P. Machine 

Learning for Chemistry: Basics and Applications. Engineering 2023, 27 , 70 -83. 

(27) Gilmer, J.; Schoenholz, S. S.; Riley, P. F.; Vinyals, O.; Dahl, G. E. International 

Conference on Machine Learning, Sydney, Australia, 2017; p 1263 -1272. 

(28) Wee, D.; Kim, J.; Bang, S.; Samsonidze, G.; Kozinsky, B. Quantification of Uncertainties 

in Thermoelectric Properties of Materials from a First -Principles Prediction Method: An 

Approach Based on Gaussian Process Regression. Phys Rev Mater 2019, 3.

(29) Zhang, X.; Wang, L.; Helwig, J.; Luo, Y.; Fu, C.; Xie, Y.; Liu, M.; Lin, Y.; Xu, Z.; Yan, 

K.; Adams, K.; Weiler, M.; Li, X.; Fu, T.; Wang, Y.; Strasser, A.; Yu, H.; Xie, Y.; Fu, 

X.; Xu, S.; Liu, Y.; Du, Y.; Saxton, A.; Ling, H.; Lawrence, H.; Stärk, H.; Gui, S.; 

Edwards, C.; Gao, N.; Ladera, A.; Wu, T.; Hofgard, E. F.; Tehrani, A. M.; Wang, R.; 

Daigavane, A.; Bohde, M.; Kurtin, J.; Huang, Q.; Phung, T.; Xu, M.; Joshi, C. K.; 

Mathis, S. V.; Azizzadenesheli, K.; Fang, A.; Aspuru -Guzik, A.; Bekkers, E.; Bronstein, 

M.; Zitnik, M.; Anandkumar, A.; Ermon, S.; Liò, P.; Yu, R.; Günnemann, S.; Leskovec, 

J.; Ji, H.; Sun, J.; Barzilay, R.; Jaakkola, T.; Coley, C. W.; Qian, X.; Qian, X.; Smidt, T.; 

Ji, S. Artificial Intelligence for Science in Quantum, Atomistic, and Continuum Systems. 

Foundations and Trends in Machine Learning 2025, 18 , 385 -849. 44 

(30) Liao, Y. -L.; Smidt, T. Equiformer: Equivariant Graph Attention Transformer for 3 D

Atomistic Graphs. arXiv 2023 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2206.11990 

10.48550/arXiv.2206.11990. 

(31) Liao, Y. -L.; Wood, B.; Das, A.; Smidt, T. International Conference on Learning 

Representations, Vienna, Austria, 2024; p 39282 -39309. 

(32) Satorras, V. c. G.; Hoogeboom, E.; Welling, M. Proceedings of the 38th International 

Conference on Machine Learning, 2021; p 9323 -9332. 

(33) Schütt, K. T.; Kindermans, P. -J.; Sauceda, H. E.; Chmiela, S.; Tkatchenko, A.; Müller, 

K. -R. Schnet: A Continuous -Filter Convolutional Neural Network for Modeling 

Quantum Interactions. arXiv 2017 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.1706.08566 

10.48550/arXiv.1706.08566. 

(34) Wu, F.; Radev, D.; Li, S. Z. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial 

Intelligence, 2023; p 5312 -5320. 

(35) Batzner, S.; Musaelian, A.; Sun, L.; Geiger, M.; Mailoa, J. P.; Kornbluth, M.; Molinari, 

N.; Smidt, T. E.; Kozinsky, B. E(3) -Equivariant Graph Neural Networks for Data -

Efficient and Accurate Interatomic Potentials. Nat Commun 2022, 13 .

(36) Batatia, I.; Kovacs, D. P.; Simm, G.; Ortner, C.; Csanyi, G. Advances in Neural 

Information Processing Systems 35, 2022. 

(37) Wood, B. M.; Dzamba, M.; Fu, X.; Gao, M.; Shuaibi, M.; Barroso -Luque, L.; 

Abdelmaqsoud, K.; Gharakhanyan, V.; Kitchin, J.; Levine, D. S.; Michel, K.; Sriram, A.; 

Cohen, T. S.; Das, A.; Sahoo, S.; Rizvi, A.; Ulissi, Z.; Zitnick, L. Advances in Neural 

Information Processing Systems 38, 2025. 

(38) Jin, H.; Jr., K. M. M. Liganddiff: De Novo Ligand Design for 3 D Transition Metal 

Complexes with Diffusion Models. J Chem Theory Comput 2024, 20 , 4377 -4384. 

(39) Jin, H.; Jr., K. M. M. Partial to Total Generation of 3 D Transition -Metal Complexes. J

Chem Theory Comput 2024, 20 , 8367 -8477. 

(40) Duan, C.; Du, Y.; Jia, H.; Kulik, H. J. Accurate Transition State Generation with an 

Object -Aware Equivariant Elementary Reaction Diffusion Model. Nat Comput Sci 2023, 

3, 1045 -1055. 

(41) Duan, C.; Liu, G. -H.; Du, Y.; Chen, T.; Zhao, Q.; Jia, H.; Gomes, C. P.; Theodorou, E. 

A.; Kulik, H. J. Optimal Transport for Generating Transition States in Chemical 

Reactions. Nat Mach Intell 2025, 7, 615 -626. 

(42) Darouich, S.; Toney, J. W.; Luo, W.; Kästner, J.; Niepert, M.; Kulik, H. J. Beyond the 

Training Domain: Robust Generative Transition State Models for Unseen Chemistry. Nat 

Comput Sci (Accepted) 2026 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2601.16469 

10.48550/arXiv.2601.16469. 

(43) Shprints, R.; Holderrieth, P.; Nam, J.; Gómez -Bombarelli, R.; Jaakkola, T. 

Fragment Flow: Scalable Transition State Generation for Large Molecules. arXiv 2026 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2602.02310 10.48550/arXiv.2602.02310. 

(44) Nikitin, F.; Anstine, D. M.; Isayev, O. Right into the Saddle: Stereochemistry -Aware 

Generation of Molecular Transition States. ChemRxiv 2026 ,

DOI:10.26434/chemrxiv.15001681/v1 10.26434/chemrxiv.15001681/v1. 

(45) Cavanagh, J. M.; Sun, K.; Gritsevskiy, A.; Bagni, D.; Wang, Y.; Bannister, T. D.; Head -

Gordon, T. Smiley Llama: Modifying Large Language Models for Directed Chemical 

Space Exploration. Nat Comput Sci 2026 , DOI:10.1038/s43588 -026 -00986 -y

10.1038/s43588 -026 -00986 -y. 45 

(46) Toney, J. W.; Garrison, A. G.; Luo, W.; Michel, R. G. S.; Mukhopadhyay, S.; Kulik, H. 

J. Exploring Beyond Experiment: Generating High -Quality Datasets of Transition Metal 

Complexes with Quantum Chemistry and Machine Learning. Curr Opin Chem Eng 2025, 

50 .

(47) Ramakrishnan, R.; Dral, P. O.; Rupp, M.; von Lilienfeld, O. A. Quantum Chemistry 

Structures and Properties of 134 Kilo Molecules. Sci Data 2014, 1, 140022. 

(48) Balcells, D.; Skjelstad, B. B. tmQM Dataset -Quantum Geometries and Properties of 86k 

Transition Metal Complexes. J Chem Inf Model 2020, 60 , 6135 -6146. 

(49) Levine, D. S.; Shuaibi, M.; Spotte -Smith, E. W. C.; Taylor, M. G.; Hasyim, M. R.; 

Michel, K.; Batatia, I.; Csányi, G.; Dzamba, M.; Eastman, P.; Frey, N. C.; Fu, X.; 

Gharakhanyan, V.; Krishnapriyan, A. S.; Rackers, J. A.; Raja, S.; Rizvi, A.; Rosen, A. S.; 

Ulissi, Z.; Vargas, S.; Zitnick, C. L.; Blau, S. M.; Wood, B. M. The Open Molecules 

2025 (O Mol25) Dataset, Evaluations, and Models. arXiv 2026 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2505.08762 10.48550/arXiv.2505.08762. 

(50) Garrison, A. G.; Toney, J. W.; Nikolaeva, T.; Michel, R. G. S.; Stein, C. J.; Kulik, H. J. 

The B OS -TMC Dataset: D FT Properties of 159k Experimentally Characterized 

Transition Metal Complexes Spanning Multiple Charge and Spin States. arXiv 2026 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2604.07623 10.48550/arXiv.2604.07623. 

(51) Heid, E.; Greenman, K. P.; Chung, Y.; Li, S. C.; Graff, D. E.; Vermeire, F. H.; Wu, H.; 

Green, W. H.; McGill, C. J. Chemprop: A Machine Learning Package for Chemical 

Property Prediction. J Chem Inf Model 2024, 64 , 9 -17. 

(52) Graff, D. E.; Morgan, N. K.; Burns, J. W.; Doner, A. C.; Li, B.; Li, S. C.; Manu, J.; 

Menon, A.; Pang, H. W.; Wu, H.; Zalte, A. S.; Zheng, J. W.; Coley, C. W.; Green, W. H.; 

Greenman, K. P. Chemprop v2: An Efficient, Modular Machine Learning Package for 

Chemical Property Prediction. J Chem Inf Model 2026, 66 , 28 -33. 

(53) Quirós, M.; Gražulis, S.; Girdzijauskaitė, S.; Merkys, A.; Vaitkus, A. Using SMILES 

Strings for the Description of Chemical Connectivity in the Crystallography Open 

Database. J Cheminform 2018, 10 .

(54) Reboul, E.; Wefers, Z.; Prabakaran, H.; Waldispühl, J.; Taly*, A. Improving the 

Reliability of Molecular String Representations for Generative Chemistry. J Chem Inf 

Model 2025, 65 , 10221 -10238. 

(55) Rasmussen, M. H.; Strandgaard, M.; Seumer, J.; Hemmingsen, L. K.; Frei, A.; Balcells, 

D.; Jensen, J. H. SMILES All Around: Structure to SMILES Conversion for Transition 

Metal Complexes. J Cheminform 2025, 17 .

(56) Kulik, H. J. Making Machine Learning a Useful Tool in the Accelerated Discovery of 

Transition Metal Complexes. WIREs Comput Mol Sci 2019, 10 .

(57) Bender, A.; Schneider, N.; Segler, M.; Walters, W. P.; Engkvist, O.; Rodrigues, T. 

Evaluation Guidelines for Machine Learning Tools in the Chemical Sciences. Nat Rev 

Chem 2022, 6, 428 -442. 

(58) Korotcov, A.; Tkachenko, V.; Russo, D. P.; Ekins, S. Comparison of Deep Learning with 

Multiple Machine Learning Methods and Metrics Using Diverse Drug Discovery Data 

Sets. Mol Pharm 2017, 14 , 4462 -4475. 

(59) Schwaller, P.; Laino, T.; Gaudin, T.; Bolgar, P.; Hunter, C. A.; Bekas, C.; Lee, A. A. 

Molecular Transformer: A Model for Uncertainty -Calibrated Chemical Reaction 

Prediction. ACS Cent Sci 2019, 5, 1572 -1583. 46 

(60) Lemm, D.; Rudorff, G. F. v.; Lilienfeld, O. A. v. Improved Decision Making with 

Similarity Based Machine Learning: Applications in Chemistry. Mach Learn Sci Technol 

2023, 4.

(61) Esposito, C.; Landrum, G. A.; Schneider, N.; Stiefl, N.; Riniker, S. Ghost: Adjusting the 

Decision Threshold to Handle Imbalanced Data in Machine Learning. J Chem Inf Model 

2021, 61 , 2623 -2640. 

(62) Li, M.; Sethi, I. K. Confidence -Based Active Learning. IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach 

Intell 2006, 28 , 1251 -1261. 

(63) Zhao, D.; Shen, H. IEEE International Conference on Control, Electronics and Computer 

Technology, Jilin, China, 2024. 

(64) Duan, C.; Janet, J. P.; Liu, F.; Nandy, A.; Kulik, H. J. Learning from Failure: Predicting 

Electronic Structure Calculation Outcomes with Machine Learning Models. J Chem 

Theory Comput 2019, 15 , 2331 -2345. 

(65) Janet, J. P.; Duan, C.; Yang, T.; Nandy, A.; Kulik, H. J. A Quantitative Uncertainty 

Metric Controls Error in Neural Network -Driven Chemical Discovery. Chem Sci 2019, 

10 , 7913 -7922. 

(66) Philipsen, M. P.; Moeslund, T. B. Distance in Latent Space as Novelty Measure. arXiv 

2020 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2003.14043 10.48550/arXiv.2003.14043. 

(67) Musielewicz, J.; Lan, J.; Uyttendaele, M.; Kitchin, J. R. Improved Uncertainty Estimation 

of Graph Neural Network Potentials Using Engineered Latent Space Distances. The 

Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2024, 128 , 20799 -20810. 

(68) Dinari, O.; Freifeld, O. In The 38th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence 

Eindhoven, The Netherlands, 2022. 

(69) Venkataramanan, A.; Benbihi, A.; Laviale, M.; Pradalier, C. In International Conference 

on Computer Vision Paris, France, 2023, DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2305.13849 

10.48550/arXiv.2305.13849. 

(70) Li, Z.; Walsh, A. Platonic Representation of Foundation Machine Learning Interatomic 

Potentials. Nat Mach Intell 2026, 8, 830 -840. 

(71) Tan, A. R.; Urata, S.; Goldman, S.; Dietschreit, J. C. B.; Gómez -Bombarelli, R. Single -

Model Uncertainty Quantification in Neural Network Potentials Does Not Consistently 

Outperform Model Ensembles. npj Computational Materials 2023, 9.

(72) Lakshminarayanan, B.; Pritzel, A.; Blundell, C. In Advances in Neural Information 

Processing Systems 30 Long Beach, CA, USA, 2017. 

(73) Shaker, M. H.; Hüllermeier, E. Ensemble -Based Uncertainty Quantification: Bayesian 

Versus Credal Inference. arXiv 2021 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2107.10384 

10.48550/arXiv.2107.10384. 

(74) Jeon, J.; Song, J.; Kwon, O. -S. Ensemble -Based Uncertainty Quantification and 

Decomposition of Probabilistic Surrogate Models Using Bayesian Neural Networks. 

Struct Saf 2026, 121 .

(75) MacKay, D. J. C. A Practical Bayesian Framework for Backpropagation Networks. 

Neural Comput 1992, 4, 448 -472. 

(76) Kellner, M.; Ceriotti, M. Uncertainty Quantification by Direct Propagation of Shallow 

Ensembles. Machine Learning: Science and Technology 2024, 5.

(77) Wilson, J.; Heide, C. v. d.; Hodgkinson, L.; Roosta, F. Is the Last Layer Sufficient for 

Uncertainty Quantification? arXiv 2026 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2605.30741 

10.48550/arXiv.2605.30741. 47 

(78) Paszke, A.; Gross, S.; Massa, F.; Lerer, A.; Bradbury, J.; Chanan, G.; Killeen, T.; Lin, Z.; 

Gimelshein, N.; Antiga, L.; Desmaison, A.; Köpf, A.; Yang, E.; DeVito, Z.; Raison, M.; 

Tejani, A.; Chilamkurthy, S.; Steiner, B.; Fang, L.; Bai, J.; Chintala, S. Proceedings of 

the 33rd International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 

Vancouver, CA, 2019. 

(79) Fey, M.; Lenssen, J. E. In International Conference on Learning Representations New 

Orleans, Louisiana, USA, 2019, DOI:10.48550/arXiv.1903.02428 

10.48550/arXiv.1903.02428. 

(80) Akiba, T.; Sano, S.; Yanase, T.; Ohta, T.; Koyama, M. In Proceedings of the 25th Acm 

Sigkdd International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , 2019 

(81) RDKit, 2025, DOI:10.5281/zenodo.16439048 10.5281/zenodo.16439048. 

(82) Pedregosa, F.; Varoquaux, G.; Gramfort, A.; Michel, V.; Thirion, B.; Grisel, O.; Blondel, 

M.; Prettenhofer, P.; Weiss, R.; Dubourg, V.; Vanderplas, J.; Passos, A.; Cournapeau, D.; 

Brucher, M.; Perrot, M.; Duchesnay, E. Scikit -Learn: Machine Learning in Python. J

Mach Learn Res 2011, 12 .

(83) Groom, C. R.; Bruno, I. J.; Lightfoot, M. P.; Ward, S. C. The Cambridge Structural 

Database. Acta Crystallogr B Struct Sci Cryst Eng Mater 2016, 72 , 171 -9. 

(84) Kneiding, H.; Lukin, R.; Lang, L.; Reine, S.; Pedersen, T. B.; De Bin, R.; Balcells, D. 

Deep Learning Metal Complex Properties with Natural Quantum Graphs. Digital 

Discovery 2023, 2, 618 -633. 

(85) Toney, J. W.; St Michel, R. G.; Garrison, A. G.; Kevlishvili, I.; Kulik, H. J. Graph Neural 

Networks for Predicting Metal -Ligand Coordination of Transition Metal Complexes. 

Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2025, 122 , e2415658122. 

(86) Unke, O. T.; Stöhr, M.; Ganscha, S.; Unterthiner, T.; Maennel, H.; Kashubin, S.; Ahlin, 

D.; Gastegger, M.; Sandonas, L. M.; Berryman, J. T.; Tkatchenko, A.; Müller, K. -R. 

Biomolecular Dynamics with Machine -Learned Quantum -Mechanical Force Fields 

Trained on Diverse Chemical Fragments. Sci Adv 2024, 10 .

(87) Gao, K.; Nguyen, D. D.; Sresht, V.; Mathiowetz, A. M.; Tu, M.; Wei, G. -W. Are 2d 

Fingerprints Still Valuable for Drug Discovery? Phys Chem Chem Phys 2020 ,

DOI:10.1039/D0CP00305K 10.1039/D0CP00305K, 8373 -8390. 

(88) Thameem, M.; AlHmoudi, O.; Salloum, A. A.; Darmaki, N. A.; Elkamel, A.; 

AlHammadi, A. A. Molecular Property Prediction: Input Types and Information 

Processing in Machine Learning Models. Results Eng 2026, 29 , 109241. 

(89) Garrison, A. G.; Kulik, H. J. System -Specific Reparameterization of Density Functionals 

with Machine Learning: Application to Spin -Splitting Energies of Transition Metal 

Complexes. J Chem Theory Comput 2026, 22 , 2243 -2260. 

(90) Bannwarth, C.; Ehlert, S.; Grimme, S. G FN 2-xTB -An Accurate and Broadly 

Parametrized Self -Consistent Tight -Binding Quantum Chemical Method with Multipole 

Electrostatics and Density -Dependent Dispersion Contributions. J Chem Theory Comput 

2019, 15 , 1652 -1671. 

(91) Gilmer, J.; Schoenholz, S. S.; Riley, P. F.; Vinyals, O.; Dahl, G. E. Proceedings of the 

34th International Conference on Machine Learning, Sydney, Australia, 2017; p 1263 -

1272. 

(92) Kipf, T. N.; Welling, M. Semi -Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional 

Networks. arXiv 2017 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.1609.02907 10.48550/arXiv.1609.02907. 48 

(93) Christopher Morris, M. R., Matthias Fey, William L. Hamilton, Jan Eric Lenssen, Gaurav 

Rattan, Martin Grohe. Weisfeiler and Leman Go Neural: Higher -Order Graph Neural 

Networks. arXiv 2021 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.1810.02244 10.48550/arXiv.1810.02244. 

(94) Weihua Hu, B. L., Joseph Gomes, Marinka Zitnik, Percy Liang, Vijay Pande, Jure 

Leskovec. Strategies for Pre -Training Graph Neural Networks. arXiv 2020 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.1905.12265 10.48550/arXiv.1905.12265. 

(95) Shaked Brody, U. A., Eran Yahav. How Attentive Are Graph Attention Networks? 2022 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2105.14491 10.48550/arXiv.2105.14491. 

(96) Jiacheng Cen, W. H., Anyi Li, Ning Lin, Yuxiang Ren, Zihe Wang Advances in Neural 

Information Processing Systems 37, Vancouver, Canada, 2024. 

(97) Uzair, M.; Jamil, N. 2020 IEEE 23rd International Multitopic Conference (INMIC), 

Bahawalpur, Pakistan, 2020. 

(98) Sivaram, A.; Das, L.; Venkatasubramanian, V. Hidden Representations in Deep Neural 

Networks: Part 1. Classification Problems. Comput Chem Eng 2020, 134 .

(99) Oscar Skean, M. R. A., Dan Zhao, Niket Patel, Jalal Naghiyev, Yann LeCun, Ravid 

Shwartz -Ziv. Layer by Layer: Uncovering Hidden Representations in Language Models. 

arXiv 2025 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2502.02013 10.48550/arXiv.2502.02013. 

(100) Pinto, L. Superior Molecular Representations from Intermediate Encoder Layers. arXiv 

2025 , DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2506.06443 10.48550/arXiv.2506.06443. 

(101) Irwin, R.; Dimitriadis, S.; He, J.; Bjerrum, E. J. Chemformer: A Pre -Trained Transformer 

for Computational Chemistry. Machine Learning: Science and Technology 2022, 3.

(102) Sun, R.; Dai, H.; Yu, A. W. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 35, 

New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, 2022. 

(103) Roy, S.; Ogidi, F.; Etemad, A.; Dolatabadi, E.; Afkanpour, A. A Shared Encoder 

Approach to Multimodal Representation Learning. arXiv 2025 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2503.01654 10.48550/arXiv.2503.01654. 

(104) Soares, E.; Vital Brazil, E.; Shirasuna, V.; Zubarev, D.; Cerqueira, R.; Schmidt, K. An 

Open -Source Family of Large Encoder -Decoder Foundation Models for Chemistry. 

Commun Chem 2025, 8, 193. 

(105) Toney, J. W.; St Michel, R. G.; Garrison, A. G.; Kevlishvili, I.; Kulik, H. J. Identifying 

Dynamic Metal -Ligand Coordination Modes with Ensemble Learning. J Am Chem Soc 

2025, 147 , 48218 -48234. 

(106) Kamlet, M. J.; Doherty, R. M.; Taft, R. W.; Abraham, M. H.; Koros, W. J. Solubility 

Properties in Polymers and Biological Media. 3. Predictional Methods for Critical 

Temperatures, Boiling Points, and Solubility Properties (Rg Values) Based on Molecular 

Size, Polarizability, and Dipolarity. J Am Chem Soc 1984, 106 , 1205 -1212. 

(107) Kondor, R. The Principles Behind Equivariant Neural Networks for Physics and 

Chemistry. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2025, 122 , e2415656122. 

(108) Hoff, P. D.; Raftery, A. E.; Handcock, M. S. Latent Space Approaches to Social Network 

Analysis. J Am Stat Assoc 2002, 97 , 1090 -1098. 

(109) Shannon, C. E. A Mathematical Theory of Communication. Bell Syst Tech J 1948, 27 ,

379 -423. 

(110) Zhan, Q.; Zhou, Z.; Shen, L. Towards Accurate and Calibrated Classification: 

Regularizing Cross -Entropy from a Generative Perspective. arXiv 2026 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2604.06689 10.48550/arXiv.2604.06689. 49 

(111) Braverman, M.; Chen, X.; Kakade, S.; Narasimhan, K.; Zhang, C.; Zhang, Y. In 

Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning , 2020; Vol. 119. 

(112) Cao, S.; Valiant, G.; Liang, P. In Thirty -ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information 

Processing Systems San Diego, CA, USA, 2025. 

(113) Kendall, A.; Gal, Y. In Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Long 

Beach, CA, USA, 2017, DOI:10.48550/arXiv.1703.04977 10.48550/arXiv.1703.04977. 

(114) Nakayama, H.; Yun, Y. B.; Asada, T.; Yoon, M. Mop/Gp Models for Machine Learning. 

Eur J Oper Res 2005, 166 , 756 -768. 

(115) Peretz, O.; Koren, M.; Koren, O. Naive Bayes Classifier – an Ensemble Procedure for 

Recall and Precision Enrichment. Eng Appl Artif Intell 2024, 136 .

(116) Jensen, J. L. W. V. Sur Les Fonctions Convexes Et Les Inégualités Entre Les Valeurs 

Moyennes. Acta Mathematica 1906, 30 , 175 -193. 

(117) Durrett, R. Probability: Theory and Examples. 5th Edition ; 5 ed.; Cambridge University 

Press, 2019. 

(118) Zalte, A. S.; Pang, H. W.; Doner, A. C.; Green, W. H. R IGR : Resonance -Invariant Graph 

Representation for Molecular Property Prediction. J Chem Inf Model 2025, 65 , 10832 -

10843. 

(119) Terrones, G. G.; St Michel, R. G.; Toney, J. W.; Ball, A. K.; Wang, Y.; Garrison, A. G.; 

Nandy, A.; Meyer, R.; Edholm, F.; Oh, C.; Pujet, S. G.; Chu, D. B. K.; 

Muhammetgulyyev, D.; Kulik, H. J. mol Simplify 2.0: Improved Structure Generation for 

Automating Discovery in Inorganic Molecular and Reticular Chemistry. J Chem Inf 

Model 2026, 66 , 2753 -2767. 

(120) Kabylda, A.; Frank, J. T.; Suarez -Dou, S.; Khabibrakhmanov, A.; Medrano Sandonas, L.; 

Unke, O. T.; Chmiela, S.; Muller, K. R.; Tkatchenko, A. Molecular Simulations with a 

Pretrained Neural Network and Universal Pairwise Force Fields. J Am Chem Soc 2025, 

147 , 33723 -33734. 

(121) Toney, J. W.; Darouich, S.; Wang, Y.; Garrison, A. G.; Kästner, J.; Kulik, H. J. Zenodo 

Dataset for “Eleme Net: Multiscale Molecular Machine Learning with Uncertainty 

Quantification across the Periodic Table”. 2026. 

https://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.20653096 . (Accessed June 12). 50 

For Table of Contents Use Only Page S 1

Supporting Information for 

Elem eNet: M ultiscale Molecular Machine Learning with Uncertainty Quantification Across 

the Periodic Table 

Jacob W. Toney 1,2,# , Samir Darouich 1, 3,4,# , Yiran Wang 1,2 , Aaron G. Garrison 1, Johannes 

Kästner 3, and Heather J. Kulik 1, 2, 5,*

> 1

Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 

02139, USA 

> 2

Center for Computational Science and Engineering , Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 

Cambridge, MA 02139, USA 

> 3

Institute for Theoretical Chemistry , University of Stuttgart, Germany 

> 4

Institute for Artificial Intelligence, University of Stuttgart, Germany 

> 5

Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA 

#These authors contributed equally 

*corresponding author email: hjkulik@mit.edu 

Contents 

Table S 1 Initial node representations used by encoder Page S 3

Table S 2 Initial edge representations used by encoder Page S 3

Text S1 Bond interpretation scheme Page S 4

Text S2 Charge and spin determination scheme Page S 5

Text S3 Charge and spin embedding scheme Page S 6

Table S3 Optional bulk features used in initial representations Page S 6

Table S4 Optional xTB features used in initial representations Page S 7

Table S 5 Full space of hyperparameters considered Page S 8

Table S 6 Performance and calibration of QM9 atomization energy model ensembles Page S 9

Table S 7 Performance and calibration of QM9 gap model ensembles Page S 10 

Table S 8 Performance and calibration of tmQMg dipole model ensembles Page S 11

Table S 9 Performance and calibration of tmQMg gap model ensembles Page S 12

Text S 4 Binary classification ensemble reduction to binary cross -entropy Page S 13

Text S 5 Multiclass classification ensemble reduction to multiclass cross -entropy Page S 15

Table S 10 List of unparsable SMILES in the pydentate dataset Page S 17

Table S 11 Performance and calibration of binary pydentate model ensembles Page S 18

Table S 12 Performance and calibration of multiclass pydentate model ensembles Page S 19 

Table S 13 Optional RDKit features used in initial representations Page S 20 

Table S14 Relevant functions, keywords, and commands defined within ElemeNet Page S21 Page S 2

Table S 15 Restricted space of hyperparameters considered during "quicksearch" Page S 22

Table S 16 Evaluation metrics available in ElemeNet Page S 22

Table S 17 Uncertainty metrics available in ElemeNet Page S 23

Table S 18 Results of 3D GNN models reported in original tmQMg work Page S23 

Text S 6 Procedure used to calculate atomization energies for the GEMS dataset Page S 24

Table S19 Charge -spin encoding ablation study Page S2 4

References Page S 25Page S 3

Table S 1. Initial node representations used by the encoder. Atomic mass, covalent radius, 

Pauling electronegativity, period, and group are obtained from WebElements 1. van der Waals 

radii are from Alvarez 2, while polarizability values are from Schwerdtfeger and Nagle 3. Valence 

electrons are reported for the 𝑁 s, 𝑁 p, (𝑁 − 1)d, and (𝑁 − 2)f orbitals, where 𝑁 is period, and 

are extracted from the NIST Atomic Spectra Database 4 and https://periodictable.com 5.

Experimentally -measured first ionization potentials and electron affinities are extracted from 

mendeleev 6 v0.19.0 . All of these values may be found in the globalvars.py file of the 

ElemeNet codebase , and the user may add missing elements or adjust values accordingly by 

editing this file.                                                                 

> feature (units) dimension range encoding
> atomic mass (amu) 1[" H": 1.0079 , " Fm ": 257 ]min -max scaling
> covalent radius (Å) 1["H": 0.37, "Fr": 3.48] min -max scaling
> van der Waals radius (Å) 1["H": 1.2, "Cs": 3.48] min -max scaling
> electronegativity 1["He": 0, "F": 3.98] min -max scaling
> polarizability (bohr 3)1["He": 1.38375 , "Cs": 400.9] min -max scaling
> ionization potential (eV) 1["Cs": 3.89, "He": 24.59 ]min -max scaling
> electron affinity (eV) 1["He": -19.7, "Cl": 3.61] min -max scaling
> coordination number 1[0, 12] min -max scaling
> valence electrons in sorbitals 3[0, 3] one -hot
> valence electrons in porbitals 7[0, 6] one -hot
> valence electrons in d orbitals 11 [0, 10] one -hot
> valence electrons in forbitals 15 [0, 14] one -hot
> period 7[1, 7] one -hot
> group 18 [1, 18] one -hot
> number of hydrogens 1[0, 8] min -max scaling

Table S 2. Initial edge representations used by the encoder. Bond type may be either single, 

double, triple, or aromatic. "Has metal". Estimated bond length is equal to the sum of covalent 

radii between the bonded atoms. For edge_invariant=True , only estimate bond length and 

"has metal" features are used. EGNN encoder uses distance -based embedding in lieu of these 

edge features.          

> feature (units) dimension encoding
> bond type 4one -hot
> estimated bond length (Å) 1integer
> has metal 1integer

Page S 4

Text S 1. Bond interpretation scheme. 

ElemeNet supports the training of 2D graph neural networks (GNNs) based on molecular 

connectivity for cif, cml, mol, mol2, sdf, SMILES, and xyz formats. Most of these formats 

explicitly encode connectivity, with the exception of cif and xyz formats, which only include 3D 

coordinates. For these inputs, bonds are automatically interpreted based on the pairwise distances 

between all atoms in the input structure. If the distance is within some threshold ( 𝜏 ), a bond is 

added; otherwise, the atoms remain unbonded. ElemeNet uses the sum of covalent radii ( 𝑟 !"# ) for 

each pair of atoms ( 𝑖 , 𝑗 ) as its bonding threshold multiplied by a constant scale -factor ( 𝛼 ): 

𝜏 = 𝛼 .𝑟 !"# ,% + 𝑟 !"# ,& 0 (S1)

This scale -factor is set to 1.0 by default but may be adjusted by the user through the 

bond_scale_factor keyword. 

We note that this approach only encodes the presence of a bond, not bond order (i.e., all 

interpreted bonds for cif and xyz inputs are defined as single bonds). This assumption has little 

effect, since initial molecular representations are updated by message passing regardless so long 

as a bond of any type exists between two atoms. We also note that our E(3) equivariant GNN 

architectures do not require any bonding information, as they rely exclusively on pairwise 

distances between points. Page S 5

Text S 2. Charge and spin determination scheme. 

ElemeNet explicitly considers the charge and spin of all molecules. These values are 

determined automatically , but the code allow s for user intervention. Charge is determined by 

assuming all molecules are neutral, while allowed spin multiplicities are determined by counting 

the total number of electrons in the system (assuming all atoms are neutral) and adding on the 

determined charge. If the total number of electrons is even, the molecule is assumed to be a 

singlet, while a doublet spin state is assumed is the total number of electrons is odd (i.e., we 

assume a low -spin state by default). 

These assumptions may be relaxed by several mechanisms. First, the user may optionally 

define the charge and/or spin multiplicity of each entry in their dataset by including the columns 

charge and spinmult in their input .csv files and specifying these via the feature_columns 

argument to training_pipeline . If only charge is provided, the assumed spin multiplicity is 

updated accordingly by subtracting the specified charge from the calculated total number of 

electrons. Similarly, if only spin is provided, the charge is still assumed to be neutral, and the 

spinmult argument indicates whether the molecule is in a higher -spin state. Internal 

consistency is still required (e.g., specifying a spin multiplicity of 2 for a complex with an even 

number of electrons will raise an error), but this may be optionally overwritten with the 

charge_spin_override keyword. 

ElemeNet also supports the specification of atomic partial charges via an 

atomic_charges column in the input .csv file. These atom -centered charges are concatenated 

to initial node representations, and are also used to inform the net charge of a molecule. If 

molecular charge is not specified, it is calculated as the sum of atomic charges. If both 

atomic_charges and charge are provided, internal consistency is again confirmed (i.e., 

charge must equal the sum of atomic charges). Page S 6

Text S 3. Charge and spin embedding scheme. 

Charge and spin information is automatically encoded for all molecules (Text S 2). By 

default, these graph -level attributes are concatenated to the learned node representations, after 

pooling if applicable (i.e., for graph -level targets). For increased expressivity, ElemeNet also 

supports projecting charge and spin through a small one -layer neural network, with the resulting 

learned graph embeddings concatenated to (pooled) node representations. The hidden layer size 

of this charge -spin neural network is controlled by the graph_attr_hidden_dim keyword and 

is tuned during hyperparameter optimization over a search space of 8, 16, 32, or 64 neurons. In 

the case that charge and spin provides no valuable information (e.g., in datasets such as QM9 

which include only neutral, closed -shell molecules), this network also supports a hidden 

dimension size of "None", corresponding to standard concatenation of charge and spin to node 

representations. We note that while our above discussion is limited to charge and spin (i.e., the 

only graph -level features defined for all molecules by default), if additional graph -level 

descriptors are provided, these attributes will be projected and concatenated in the same manner. 

Table S 3. Optional bulk features used in initial representations. All bulk features are defined on 

a per -node basis. These features may be optionally concatenated to initial node representations 

through the use_bulk keyword (default is False). All values are obtained from 

https://periodictable.com 5. These values are all stored in the globalvars.py file and may be 

readily modified by the user.                                                                   

> feature (units) dimension range encoding
> melting temperature (K) 1[" He" :0, "C" :3823.15] min -max scaling
> boiling temperature (K) 1["At" :0, "Re" :5869.15] min -max scaling
> heat of fusion (kJ/mol) 1["Pu" :0, "C" :105] min -max scaling
> heat of vaporization (kJ/mol) 1["Am" :0, "W" :800] min -max scaling
> specific heat capacity (J/kg K) 1["Pm" :0, "H" :14300] min -max scaling
> thermal conductivity (W/m K) 1["Po" :0, "Ag" :430] min -max scaling
> electrical conductivity (S/m) 1[" H":0, "Ag" :6.2E7] min -max scaling
> lattice angles 3
> 𝛼 : [0, 𝜋 /2]
> 𝛽 : [0, 2.313085 ]
> 𝛾 : [0, 2 𝜋 /3]
> unscaled
> lattice constants 3
> a: [0, 11.45]
> b: [0, 12.845]
> c: [0, 26.25]
> unscaled
> phase 3{"solid", "liquid", "gas"} one -hot
> crystal structure 12 {"bcc", "bcm", "bco", "bct", "cub", "fcc", "fco",
> "hex", "mono", "ortho", "tet", "tri"} one -hot
> space group 19
> {"2", "11", "12", "14", "15", "62", "63", "64",
> "70", "139", "141", "152" ,"166", "194", "217",
> "221", "225", "227", "229" }
> one -hot

Page S 7

Table S 4. Optional xTB features used in initial representations. These features may be optionally 

concatenated to initial node, edge, and graph representations through the use_xtb keyword 

(default is "False"). The results are directly obtained from the output of a GFN2 -xTB 7 calculation 

initialized at the user -provided input geometry and the determined charge and spin state (Text 

S2). As xTB features require 3D information as inputs, they are not supported for SMILES 

representations , which only encode connectivity. Dimension refers to the feature size per -unit of 

scope. For example, the per -node dimension of the "atomic charge" feature is 1, but there are a 

total of 𝑁 atomic charges reported for a system with 𝑁 atoms.                       

> feature (units) scope dimension encoding
> energy (Ha) graph 1unscaled
> dipole (e bohr) graph 1unscaled
> gap (Ha) graph 1unscaled
> atomic charge (e) node 1unscaled
> atomic energy (Ha) node 1unscaled
> bond order (e) edge 1unscaled

Page S 8

Table S 5. Full space of hyperparameters considered. 

hyperparameter search space description default 

learning rate [1e -6, 1e -2] Initial learning rate used by optimizer. Search 

performed in continuous log -space. 1e -4

weight decay [1e -6, 1e -1] Weight decay regularization used by optimizer. 

Search performed in continuous log -space. 0

encoder layers {3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9} Number of encoder layers. 3

encoder neurons {64, 128, 256, 512} Neurons in first encoder hidden layer. 128 

encoder shape 

{"constant", "increasing", 

"decreasing", "hourglass", 

"pyramid"} 

Shape of encoder network. Used by GNN encoder 

only. EGNN encoder uses "constant" shape. "constant" 

encoder dropout [0, 0.4] Dropout rate among encoder neurons. Search 

performed in continuous space. 0.1 

encoder 

activation 

{"relu", "tanh", 

"leakyrelu", "gelu", "silu"} 

Encoder activation functions. Used by GNN 

encoder only. EGNN encoder uses separate 

equivariant activations. 

"relu" 

encoder 

convolution 

{"gcnconv", "graphconv", 

"gineconv", "nnconv", 

"gat"} 

Encoder convolution operators. Used by GNN 

encoder only. EGNN encoder uses separate 

equivariant convolutions. 

"graphconv" 

encoder pooling {"mean", "sum", "max"} 

Function for aggregating node to graph 

representations. Only required for graph or 

subgraph -level targets. 

"mean" 

EGNN inverse 

sublayers {1, 2, 3} 

Number of equivariant sub -layers used per encoder 

hidden layer for coordinate updates. Used by 

EGNN encoder only. 

2

EGNN attention {True, False} Whether to use attention in equivariant message -

passing. Used by EGNN encoder only. False 

EGNN distance 

embedding {True, False} 

Whether to project distances to higher dimensional 

space via Gaussian basis functions. Used by 

EGNN encoder only. 

True 

EGNN 

Gaussians {32, 64, 128} 

Number of Gaussian basis functions to use for 

distance embedding projection. Used by EGNN 

encoder only. 

64 

EGNN 

aggregation {"mean", "sum"} Aggregation function for equivariant message -

passing. Used by EGNN encoder only. "sum" 

readout layers {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} Number of readout layers. 3

readout neurons {64, 128, 256, 512} Neurons in first readout hidden layer. 128 

readout shape 

{"constant", "increasing", 

"decreasing", "hourglass", 

"pyramid"} 

Shape of readout network. Used by MLP readout 

only. Transformer readout uses "constant" shape. "constant" 

readout dropout [0, 0.4] Dropout rate among readout neurons. Search 

performed in continuous space. 0.1 

readout 

activation 

{"relu", "tanh", 

"leakyrelu", "gelu", "silu"} Readout activation functions. "relu" 

readout norm {True, False} Whether to normalize activations in readout hidden 

layers. True 

graph attribute 

hidden size {8, 16, 32, 64, None} 

Hidden dimension to which graph attributes are 

projected. None results in no change to original 

graph attribute size. 

None 

TF attention 

heads {2, 4, 8} Number of TF attention heads. Used by TF readout 

only. 8

TF expansion {2, 4, 8} Projection of TF attention heads. Used by TF 

readout only. 4Page S 9

Table S 6. Performance and calibration of QM9 atomization energy ensemble model s. All 

models trained utilize a 2D GNN encoder and either an MLP or transformer (TF) readout 

architecture with default hyperparameters. Models are trained for 500 epochs with early 

stopping. Data splits of QM9 from Heid et al. are used. 8 The hyperparameter -optimized models 

originally trained by Heid et al. achieve an MAE of 1.11 kcal/mol on atomization energy. 8 Our 

models are not hyperparameter -optimized and are not fully trained to validation loss saturation. 

Spearman rank correla tion (ρ) measures the extent to which ensemble variance or latent space 

distance (LSD) between 𝑁 nearest neighbors correlates with predictive error, with higher values 

indicating better calibration. Bold indicates the best result for a given metric, and the arrow 

indicates what direction corresponds to a better value for a metric. Wall time is reported for end -

to -end runs (i.e., including preprocessing, training, and inference).                                                                                                   

> model ensemble
> size
> wall time
> (s)
> MAE
> (kcal/mol)
> ensemble
> variance
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD ,𝑁 =1
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD ,𝑁 =10
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD ,𝑁 =200
> 𝜌 (↑)
> GNN -MLP
> 16543 10.01 ----0.069 -0.067 -0.12 2
> 27041 11.09 0.203 0.088 0.11 40.103
> 47032 10.38 0.354 0.002 0.023 0.08 4
> 87050 7.68 0.379 0.111 0.153 0.218
> 16 6895 8.93 0.387 0.047 0.063 0.10 4
> 32 7088 9.06 0.397 0.055 0.08 20.09 7
> 64 7059 9.32 0.462 0.097 0.11 10.106
> GNN -TF
> 110943 1.61 ---0.184 0.245 0.246
> 211224 5.17 0.379 0.083 0.120 0.13 8
> 411138 1.45 0.391 0.237 0.30 70.30 9
> 811228 1.58 0.392 0.203 0.269 0.27 7
> 16 11156 1.47 0.372 0.2 500.325 0.319
> 32 11217 1.46 0.382 0.226 0.289 0.289
> 64 10878 1.46 0.39 70.229 0.310 0.316

Page S 10 

Table S 7. Performance and calibration of QM9 gap ensemble model s. All models trained utilize 

a 2D GNN encoder and either an MLP or transformer (TF) readout architecture with default 

hyperparameters. Models are trained for 500 epochs with early stopping. Data splits of QM9 

from Heid et al. are used. 8 The hyperparameter -optimized models originally trained by Heid et 

al. achieve an MAE of 3.14 × 10 -3 hartree on HOMO -LUMO gap. 8 Our models are not 

hyperparameter optimized and are not fully trained to validation loss saturation. Spearman rank 

correla tion (ρ) measures the extent to which ensemble variance or latent space distance (LSD) 

between 𝑁 nearest neighbors correlates with predictive error, with higher values indicating better 

calibration. Bold indicates the best result for a given metric, and the arrow indicates what 

direction corresponds to a better value for a metric. Wall time is reported for end -to -end runs 

(i.e., including preprocessing, training, and inference).                                                                                                   

> model ensemble
> size
> wall time
> (s)
> MAE
> (hartree )
> ensemble
> variance
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =1
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =10
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =200
> 𝜌 (↑)
> GNN -MLP
> 16737 5. 80 e-3---0.098 0.076 0.04 9
> 27328 5. 84 e-30.408 0.238 0.225 0.16 6
> 47112 5. 56 e-30.415 0.195 0.18 70.138
> 87213 5.6 4e-30.421 0.219 0.207 0.15 8
> 16 7069 5.66e -30.426 0.22 30.21 80.168
> 32 6900 5.5 3e-30.423 0.234 0.234 0.18 5
> 64 6909 5. 62 e-30.411 0.220 0.21 50.16 5
> GNN -TF
> 110888 4. 48 e-3---0.289 0.31 80.230
> 210972 5. 10 e-30.384 0.266 0.29 10.2 50
> 411166 5. 35 e-30.386 0.247 0.28 60.247
> 811237 5. 28 e-30.383 0.245 0.278 0.243
> 16 10706 5. 47 e-30.397 0.253 0.29 80.27 5
> 32 10740 5. 18e -30.403 0.273 0.314 0.28 8
> 64 11050 5. 44 e-30.393 0.249 0.28 50.26 6

Page S 11 

Table S 8. Performance and calibration of tmQMg dipole ensemble model s. All models trained 

utilize an EGNN encoder and either an MLP or transformer (TF) readout architecture with 

default hyperparameters. Models are trained for 500 epochs with early stopping. Data splits of 

tmQMg from Kneiding et al. are used. 9 Hyperparameter -optimized models originally trained by 

Kneiding et al. without DFT inputs achieve an average MAE of 1.1 0 debye on dipole. 9 Our 

models are not hyperparameter -optimized and are not fully trained to validation loss saturation. 

Spearman rank correla tion (ρ) measures the extent to which ensemble variance or latent space 

distance (LSD) between 𝑁 nearest neighbors correlates with predictive error, with higher values 

indicating better calibration. Bold indicates the best result for a given metric, and the arrow 

indicates what direction corresponds to a better value for a metric. Wall time is reported for end -

to -end runs (i.e., including preprocessing, training, and inference).                                                                                                   

> model ensemble
> size
> wall time
> (s)
> MAE
> (debye )
> ensemble
> variance
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =1
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =10
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =200
> 𝜌 (↑)
> EGNN -MLP
> 15044 1.14 ---0.268 0.2524 0.2104
> 25084 1.6 60.3 780.28 30.3043 0.2752
> 45077 1.2 70.47 00.36 20.3757 0.3485
> 85077 1.25 0.48 00.36 60.3851 0.3616
> 16 5089 1.4 10.48 00.37 00.3932 0.3663
> 32 5643 1. 50 0.47 00.3 30 0.3345 0.2909
> 64 5621 1.3 90.464 0.31 40.3277 0.2897
> EGNN -TF
> 15770 1.39 ---0.34 10.3347 0.2733
> 26261 1.6 80.39 00.2 30 0.2741 0.2756
> 46251 1.5 10.42 80.32 20.3475 0.3326
> 85636 1.5 50.42 30.35 40.3931 0.3835
> 16 6262 1. 610.44 40.3 72 0.4045 0.3899
> 32 6269 1.63 0.438 0.33 30.3818 0.3979
> 64 6251 1.6 40.43 60.36 50.4124 0.4180

Page S 12 

Table S 9. Performance and calibration of tmQMg gap ensemble models . All models trained 

utilize an EGNN encoder and either an MLP or transformer (TF) readout architecture with 

default hyperparameters. Models are trained for 500 epochs with early stopping. Data splits of 

tmQMg from Kneiding et al. are used. 9 Hyperparameter -optimized models originally trained by 

Kneiding et al. without DFT inputs achieve an average MAE of 1.0 0×10 -2 hartree on HOMO -

LUMO gap. 9 Our models are not hyperparameter -optimized and are not fully trained to 

validation loss saturation. Spearman rank correla tion (ρ) measures the extent to which ensemble 

variance or latent space distance (LSD) between 𝑁 nearest neighbors correlates with predictive 

error, with higher values indicating better calibration. Bold indicates the best result for a given 

metric, and the arrow indicates what direction corresponds to a better value for a metric. Wall 

time is reported for end -to -end runs (i.e., including preprocessing, training, and inference).                                                                                                   

> model ensemble
> size
> wall time
> (s)
> MAE
> (hartree)
> ensemble
> variance
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =1
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =10
> 𝜌 (↑)
> LSD, 𝑁 =200
> 𝜌 (↑)
> EGNN -MLP
> 15093 0.009 9---0.158 0.126 0.087
> 25466 0.010 50.30 10.23 10.22 40.187
> 45462 0.009 80.330 0.276 0.274 0.24 7
> 85202 0.009 90.31 50.273 0.269 0.227
> 16 5161 0.009 90.31 90.26 20.257 0.217
> 32 5468 0.010 10.30 60.227 0.21 80.179
> 64 5465 0.010 30.311 0.246 0.23 80.19 9
> EGNN -TF
> 15578 0.0107 ---0.34 60.29 90.156
> 26054 0.011 20.330 0.24 30.261 0.231
> 45651 0.0123 0.271 0.19 90.19 90.14 3
> 85644 0.0120 0.27 90.22 10.21 40.1 60
> 16 6058 0.0123 0.289 0.237 0.23 50.18 8
> 32 5705 0.0122 0.31 20.260 0.272 0.23 4
> 64 5611 0.012 40.272 0.22 80.244 0.21 5

Page S 13 

Text S 4. Proof that the negative log -likelihood of an ensemble of Bernoulli predictions under a 

Beta prior is exactly equivalent to binary cross -entropy. 

For binary classification, we may place a Beta prior on binary class probability 𝑝 and model 

observations 𝑦 as draws from a Bernoulli distribution conditional on 𝑝 :

𝑝 ~Beta (𝛼 , 𝛽 ), 𝑦 |𝑝 ~Bernoulli (𝑝 ) (S2)

where 𝛼 and 𝛽 are the shape parameters defining the Beta distribution. The joint probability 

distribution 𝑃 (𝑦 , 𝑝 |𝛼 , 𝛽 ) may be factored as: 

𝑃 (𝑦 , 𝑝 |𝛼 , 𝛽 ) = 𝑃 (𝑦 |𝑝 )𝑃 (𝑝 |𝛼 , 𝛽 ) (S3)

where 𝑃 (𝑦 |𝑝 ) = 𝑝 '(1 − 𝑝 )()' is the known likelihood of a Bernoulli distribution. The Beta 

prior density is 𝑃 (𝑝 |𝛼 , 𝛽 ) = 𝑝 *)((1 − 𝑝 )+)(/𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ), where 𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) is the Beta function. 

We may integrate with respect to 𝑝 to obtain 𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛼 , 𝛽 ), the marginal log -likelihood of 𝑦 given 𝛼 

and 𝛽 :

𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛼 , 𝛽 ) = F 𝑝 '(1 − 𝑝 )()' ∙ 𝑝 *)((1 − 𝑝 )+)(

𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) 𝑑𝑝 

> (
> ,

(S4)

= 1

𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) F 𝑝 *-')((1 − 𝑝 )+)'

> (
> ,

𝑑𝑝 (S5)

= 𝐵 (𝛼 + 𝑦 , 𝛽 + 1 − 𝑦 )

𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) (S6)

The negative log -likelihood (NLL) is: 

ℒ.// = − log 𝐵 (𝛼 + 𝑦 , 𝛽 + 1 − 𝑦 )

𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) (S7)

= log 𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) − log 𝐵 (𝛼 + 𝑦 , 𝛽 + 1 − 𝑦 ) (S8)

Because a binary class observation 𝑦 must be either 0 or 1, the marginal log -likelihood may 

exhibit only two cases. Considering both cases and rewriting the Beta function explicitly in terms 

of Gamma functions as 𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) = Γ(𝛼 )Γ(𝛽 )/Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 ):

Case 𝑦 = 1:

𝑃 (1|𝛼 , 𝛽 ) = 𝐵 (𝛼 + 1, 𝛽 )

𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) (S9)

= Γ(𝛼 + 1)Γ(𝛽 )

Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 + 1) ∙ Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 )

Γ(𝛼 )Γ(𝛽 ) (S10 )Page S 14 

= 𝛼 Γ(𝛼 )

Γ(𝛼 ) ∙ Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 )

(𝛼 + 𝛽 )Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 ) (S11 )

= 𝛼 

𝛼 + 𝛽 = 𝑝 ̅ (S12 )

Case 𝑦 = 0:

𝑃 (0|𝛼 , 𝛽 ) = 𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 + 1)

𝐵 (𝛼 , 𝛽 ) (S13 )

= Γ(𝛼 )Γ(𝛽 + 1)

Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 + 1) ∙ Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 )

Γ(𝛼 )Γ(𝛽 ) (S14 )

= 𝛽 Γ(𝛽 )

Γ(𝛽 ) ∙ Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 )

(𝛼 + 𝛽 )Γ(𝛼 + 𝛽 ) (S15 )

= 𝛽 

𝛼 + 𝛽 = 1 − 𝑝 ̅ (S16 )

utilizing the relations Γ(𝑥 + 1) = 𝑥 Γ(𝑥 ) and the definitions of Beta distribution shape 

parameters, where 𝑝 ̅ is the mean probability. 

Combining both cases and taking the negative log -likelihood results in: 

𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛼 , 𝛽 ) = 𝑝 ̅ ' (1 − 𝑝 ̅ )()' (S17 )

ℒ.// = − ylog 𝑝 ̅ − (1 − 𝑦 ) log (1 − 𝑝 ̅ ) = BCE (𝑝 ̅ , 𝑦 ) (S18 )

Therefore, the negative log -likelihood of the Beta -Bernoulli is equivalent to binary cross -entropy 

(BCE). Page S 15 

Text S5. Proof that the negative log -likelihood of an ensemble of Categorical predictions under a 

Dirichlet prior is exactly equivalent to multiclass cross -entropy. 

Let 𝐾 be the number of classes and 𝑦 ∈ {1, ⋯ , 𝐾 } be the true class label for an observation. For 

multiclass classification, we place a Dirichlet prior on per -class probabilities 𝐩 and model 

observations 𝑦 as draws from a Categorical distribution conditional on 𝐩 :

𝐩 ~Dirichlet (𝛂 ), 𝑦 |𝐩 ~Categorical (𝐩 ) (S19 )

where 𝛂 = {𝛼 (, ⋯ , 𝛼 0} are concentration parameters defining the Dirichlet distribution. The total 

concentration is defined as 𝛼 , = ∑ 𝛼 1 

> 0
> 12(

. The joint probability distribution 𝑃 (𝑦 , 𝐩 |𝛂 ) factors as: 

𝑃 (𝑦 , 𝐩 |𝛂 ) = 𝑃 (𝑦 |𝐩 )𝑃 (𝐩 |𝛂 ) (S20 )

where 𝑃 (𝑦 |𝐩 ) = ∏ 𝑝 1 

> 3!" 0
> 12(

is the likelihood of a Categorical distribution, 𝑝 1 is the probability of 

class 𝑘 , and 𝛿 '1 is the Kronecker delta. The Dirichlet prior density is 𝑃 (𝐩 |𝛂 ) = ( 

> 4(𝛂 )

∏ 𝑝 1 

> *")(0
> 12(

,

where 𝐵 (𝛂 ) is the multivariate Beta function and 𝛼 1 is the concentration parameter of dimension 

𝑘 .

Integrating 𝐩 gives 𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛂 ), the marginal log -likelihood of 𝑦 given 𝛂 :

𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛂 ) = F 𝑃 (𝑦 |𝐩 )𝑃 (𝐩 |𝛂 )𝑑 𝐩 

> 8#$%

(S21 )

= F f 𝑝 1

> 3!"
> 0
> 12(

1

𝐵 (𝛂 ) f 𝑝 1

> *")(
> 0
> 12(8#$%

𝑑 𝐩 (S22 )

= 1

𝐵 (𝛂 ) F f 𝑝 1

> 3!" -*")(
> 0
> 12(

𝑑 𝐩 

> 8#$%

(S23 )

where Δ0)( is the standard 𝐾 − 1 simplex support upon which a 𝐾 -dimensional Dirichlet 

distribution is defined. The integrand is proportional to a Dirichlet density with concentration 

parameters 𝛂 9 = h𝛼 (, ⋯ , 𝛼 ' + 1, ⋯ , 𝛼 0i, where all values are equivalent to the 𝛂 case aside from 

the 𝑦 -th which is incremented by one due to the 𝛿 '1 − 1 term. Because the integral over the 

support of any probability density equals one, the integral must equal the normalizing constant of 

this offset Dirichlet: 

F f 𝑝 1 

> *"
> &)(
> 0
> 12(

𝑑 𝐩 

> 8#$%

= 𝐵 (𝛂 9) (S24 )

Resulting in the simplified marginal log -likelihood expression: Page S 16 

𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛂 ) = 𝐵 (𝛂 9)

𝐵 (𝛂 ) (S25 )

We may simplify the expression by rewriting the multivariate Beta function in terms of Gamma 

functions (Eq. S25) and invoking the Gamma recurrence relation, Γ(𝑥 + 1) = 𝑥 Γ(𝑥 ):

𝐵 (𝛂 ) = 1

Γ(𝛼 ,) f Γ(𝛼 1)

> 0
> 12(

(S26 )

Concretely: 

𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛂 ) = 𝐵 (𝛂 9)

𝐵 (𝛂 ) = Γ(𝛼 ,)

Γ(𝛼 , 

> 9

) f Γ(𝛼 1 

> 9

)

Γ(𝛼 1)

> 0
> 12(

(S27 )

Because 𝛼 1 = 𝛼 1 

> 9

for all 𝑘 components besides the 𝑦 -th element, 𝐵 (𝛂 ) and 𝐵 (𝛂 9) are equivalent 

aside from the 𝑦 -th concentration parameter. The total concentrations also differ only by one, 

i.e., 𝛼 , 

> 9

= 𝛼 , + 1. Therefore: 

𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛂 ) = Γ(𝛼 ,)

Γ(𝛼 , + 1) f Γ(𝛼 1 

> 9

)

Γ(𝛼 1)

> 0
> 12(

(S28 )

= Γ(𝛼 ,)

Γ(𝛼 , + 1) ∙ Γ.𝛼 ' 

> 9

0

Γ.𝛼 '0 (S29 )

= Γ(𝛼 ,)

Γ(𝛼 , + 1) ∙ Γ.𝛼 ' + 10

Γ.𝛼 '0 (S30 )

= Γ(𝛼 ,)

𝛼 ,Γ(𝛼 ,) ∙ 𝛼 'Γ.𝛼 '0

Γ.𝛼 ' 0 (S31 )

𝑃 (𝑦 |𝛂 ) = 𝛼 '

𝛼 ,

= 𝔼 [𝑃 (𝑦 |𝐩 )] = 𝑝 ' (S32 )

where 𝔼 [𝑃 (𝑦 |𝐩 )] is the prior mean of the 𝑦 -th component under a Dirichlet. In the case of an 

ensemble of predictors, 𝔼 [𝑃 (𝑦 |𝐩 )] is the ensemble mean prediction for class 𝑦 , expressed as 𝑝 '.

Therefore, the marginal probability of observing class 𝑦 under a Dirichlet -Categorical model is 

equivalent to the prior mean for class 𝑦 , identical to the binary case (Text S 4). 

Multiclass cross -entropy collapses to a single term for supervised classification on 𝐲 , a target 

vector which is equal to one for the true class index ( 𝑦 ) and zero elsewhere, resulting in only the 

− log .𝑝 '0 term remaining. Thus, multiclass cross -entropy is equivalent to an ensemble under the 

Dirichlet -Categorical NLL, equivalent to binary cross -entropy and Beta -Bernoulli NLL (Text 

S4). Page S 17 

Table S 10 . Summary table of parsable and unparsable SMILES in the pydentate dataset. While 

all 66,355 molecules were successfully parsed in the original models trained by Toney et al. 10 , a 

small subset of 66 SMILES (i.e., less than 0.1% of the dataset) were not parsable by our 

ElemeNet models, which we attribute to differences in RDKit versions and sanit iz ation 

procedures used. Specifically, the original pydentate models were trained with RDKit version 

2023.09.4 without explicit sanitization ( sanitize= False ), while this work uses version 

2025.03.5 and applies the sanitization routine built -in by RDKit ( sanitize=True ). 11 We report 

the differences in training, validation, and test set size here and provide the missing SMILES in 

the associated Zenodo repository. 12 Only ElemeNet models trained on the pydentate dataset and 

using SMILES string representations are affected (i.e., those trained to predict coordinating 

atoms and coordination number). ElemeNet models trained on the pydentate dataset using mol2 

representations (i.e., those trained to predict bond lengths and metal –ligand bond lengths) use the 

full dataset.           

> data split full dataset after invalid SMILES removed
> train 53,009 52,957
> validation 6,730 6,722
> test 6,616 6,610
> total 66,355 66,289

Page S 18 

Table S 11. Performance and calibration of binary pydentate ensemb le models . All models 

trained utilize a 2D GNN encoder and either an MLP or transformer (TF) readout architecture 

with default hyperparameters. Models are trained for 500 epochs with early stopping. The t arget 

property is coordinating atom identity (i.e., a binary node -level target). Training, validation, and 

test splits are adapted from the pydentate dataset from Toney et al. 10 , omitting any ligands with 

invalid SMILES (Table S 10 ). Hyperparam eter -optimized models trained on the full dataset by 

Toney et al. achieve an accuracy of 98.8% and AUROC of 1.00. 10 Our models are not 

hyperparameter -optimized and are not fully trained to validation loss saturation. Separate in -

distribution (train/val/test) and out -of -distribution (OOD) sets are created by holding out all 

ligands with phosphorus coordinating atoms as a separate OOD set. Expected calibration error 

(ECE) measures the extent to which model confidence in predicted probabilities correlates with 

accuracy, with lower values indicating better calibration. Bold indicates the best result for a 

given metric, and the arrow indicates what direction corresponds to a better value for a metric. 

Wall time is reported for end -to -end runs (i.e., including preprocessing, training, and inference).                                                                                                                

> model ensemble
> size
> wall
> time
> (s)
> in -distribution out -of -distribution
> accuracy (↑)AUROC (↑)ECE (↓)accuracy (↑)AUROC (↑)ECE (↓)
> GNN -MLP
> 13948 0.972 0.985 0.0021 0.942 0.531 0.0429
> 24054 0.972 0.985 0.0023 0.940 0.551 0.0414
> 44016 0.972 0.985 0.0021 0.941 0.570 0.0426
> 83997 0.972 0.985 0.0020 0.943 0.552 0.0422
> 16 4095 0.972 0.985 0.0025 0.942 0.534 0.0435
> 32 3919 0.972 0.985 0.0017 0.941 0.473 0.0426
> 64 3905 0.972 0.985 0.0016 0.942 0.529 0.0421
> GNN -TF
> 17755 0.982 0.996 0.0028 0.909 0.596 0.0668
> 27824 0.982 0.996 0.0027 0.907 0.697 0.0618
> 47781 0.98 10.996 0.0028 0.915 0.679 0.0702
> 87884 0.982 0.996 0.0028 0.910 0.660 0.0664
> 16 7841 0.982 0.996 0.0011 0.924 0.694 0.0556
> 32 7797 0.982 0.996 0.0028 0.911 0.686 0.0569
> 64 7837 0.982 0.996 0.0025 0.918 0.630 0.0785

Page S 19 

Table S 12. Performance and calibration of multiclass pydentate model ensembles . All models 

trained utilize a 2D GNN encoder and either an MLP or transformer readout architecture with 

default hyperparameters. Models trained for 500 epochs with early stopping. The t arget property 

is coordination number (i.e., a multiclass graph -level target). Training, validation, and test splits 

are adapted from the pydentate dataset from Toney et al. 10 , omitting any ligands with invalid 

SMILES (Table S 10 ). Hyperparameter -optimized models originally trained on the full dataset by 

Toney et al. achieve an accuracy of 88.5% and AUROC of 0.98. 10 Our models are not 

hyperparameter optimized and are not fully trained to validation loss saturation. Separate in -

distribution (train/val/test) and out -of -distribution (OOD) sets are created by holding out all 

ligands with phosphorus coordinating atoms as a separate OOD set. F1 score is macro -averaged 

across classes. Expected calibration error (ECE) measures the extent to which model confidence 

in predicted probabilities correlates with accuracy, with lower values indicating better 

calibration. Wall time is reported for end -to -end runs (i.e., including preprocessing, training, and 

inference).                                                                                                               

> model ensemble
> size
> wall
> time
> (s)
> in -distribution out -of -distribution
> accuracy ( ↑)F1 (↑)ECE (↓)accuracy (↑)F1 (↑)ECE (↓)
> GNN -MLP
> 13186 0.836 0.793 0.0501 0.481 0.308 0.3402
> 23278 0.839 0.793 0.0499 0.411 0.251 0.4030
> 43227 0.846 0.807 0.0398 0.401 0.265 0.4267
> 83199 0.848 0.806 0.0453 0.428 0.268 0.3934
> 16 3322 0.842 0.788 0.0416 0.451 0.300 0.3276
> 32 3307 0.841 0.801 0.0402 0.442 0.280 0.3500
> 64 3246 0.840 0.793 0.0454 0.422 0.254 0.3740
> GNN -TF
> 17016 0.754 0.704 0.0686 0.490 0.317 0.2345
> 27153 0.745 0.699 0.0320 0.505 0.338 0.1781
> 47132 0.762 0.726 0.0412 0.453 0.284 0.2487
> 87190 0.758 0.712 0.0490 0.511 0.361 0.2071
> 16 7097 0.759 0.715 0.0275 0.446 0.297 0.2402
> 32 7190 0.757 0.709 0.0461 0.480 0.324 0.2280
> 64 7211 0.758 0.705 0.0295 0.515 0.347 0.1555

Page S 20 

Table S 13 . Optional RDKit features used in initial representations . These features may be 

optionally concatenated to initial node and edge representations through the rdkit_features 

keyword (default is "False "). Features are directly obtained from RDKit parsing of SMILES 

strings, and are not support ed for any other representations (e.g., mol2, xyz) . These RDKit 

features are also best defined for small organic molecules , and are not recommended for use with 

more complex chemistry (e.g., organometallics). Dimension refers to the feature size per -unit of 

scope. For example, the per -node dimension of the " formal charge " feature is 1, but there are a 

total of 𝑁 formal charges reported for a system with 𝑁 atoms.                                     

> feature (units) scope dimension range encoding
> formal charge (e) node 1{-2, -1, 0, 1, 2} unscaled
> hybridization node 1{"sp ", " sp 2", "sp 3", " sp 3d", "sp 3d2"}unscaled
> chiral tag node 1{0, 1, 2, 3} unscaled
> aromaticity node 1{0, 1} unscaled
> conjugation edge 1{0, 1} unscaled
> cyclic edge 1{0, 1} unscaled
> stereochemistry edge 1{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5} unscaled

Page S 21 

Table S14. Relevant functions, keywords, and commands defined within ElemeNet. 

utility 

(path) ElemeNet syntax description 

preprocessing 

(src/elemenet/preprocess.py )

atomic_fingerprint Featurize nodes with atomic properties. 

bond_fingerprint Featurize edges with bonds properties .

mol_fingerprint Featurize graphs with molecular properties .

feature_columns Specify extra user -provided features at the 

node, edge, or graph level. 

charge Keyword to specify molecular charge via 

feature_columns .

spinmult Keyword to specify molecular spin 

multiplicity via feature_columns .

mol_column Column containing molecular graph inputs. 

graph_format Specify molecular graph type . Must be either 

cif , cml , mol , mol2 , sdf , smiles , or xyz .

target_column Column containing target property. 

center_column 

Column containing atom indices around 

which to generate subgraphs for moiety 

predictions (optional). 

k_hops Number of atoms away from center atom to 

consider for moiety predictions (optional). 

group_by Column upon which to stratify molecules 

when preparing data splits (optional). 

encoder architectures 

(src/elemenet/encoder.py )

GNN_Encoder 2D graph neural network (GNN) encoder 

architecture. 

EGNN_Encoder Equivariant 3D GNN encoder architecture. 

readout architectures 

(src/elemenet/readout.py )

MLP Multilayer perceptron readout architecture. 

Transformer Transformer readout architecture. 

model training 

(src/elemenet/trainer.py )

LOSS_FN 

Loss function for model training. Must be 

either mse , mae , cross_entropy , bce ,

ensemble_regression ,

ensemble_binary_classification , or 

ensemble_multi_classification .

OPTIMIZER Optimizer for model training. Must be either 

adam , sgd , rmsprop , adagrad , or adamw .

SCHEDULER 

Learning rate scheduler for model training 

(optional). Must be either cosine ,

plateau , or onecycle .

hyperparameter search space 

(src/elemenet/ hypersearch.py )

search_space Defines global search space for 

hyperparameter optimization. 

search_space_encoder Defines encoder search space for 

hyperparameter optimization. 

search_space_readout Defines readout search space for 

hyperparameter optimization. 

training wrapper 

(src/elemenet/training.py ) training_pipeline 

Wrapper function for end -to -end model 

training, including preprocessing and 

inference. 

inference wrapper 

(src/elemenet/inference.py ) inference_pipeline Wrapper function for end -to -end inference 

from trained model and new dataset. 

command -line interface 

(src/scripts )

elemenet_train Command -line interface (CLI) for 

training_pipeline .

elemenet_inference CLI for inference _pipeline .Page S 22 

Table S 15. Restricted space of hyperparameters considered "quicksearch ".

hyperparameter search space description default 

learning rate [1e -5, 1e -2] Initial learning rate used by optimizer. Search 

performed in continuous log -space. 1e -4

weight decay [1e -5, 1e -1] Weight decay regularization used by optimizer. 

Search performed in continuous log -space. 0

encoder layers {3, 5, 7} Number of encoder layers. 3

encoder neurons {128, 256} Neurons in first encoder hidden layer. 128 

encoder dropout [0, 0. 3] Dropout rate among encoder neurons. Search 

performed in continuous space. 0.1 

encoder 

convolution 

{"gcnconv", "graphconv", 

"gineconv", "nnconv", 

"gat"} 

Encoder convolution operators. Used by GNN 

encoder only. EGNN encoder uses separate 

equivariant convolutions. 

"graphconv" 

readout layers {1, 2, 3} Number of readout layers. 3

readout neurons {128, 256} Neurons in first readout hidden layer. 128 

readout dropout [0, 0. 3] Dropout rate among readout neurons. Search 

performed in continuous space. 0.1 

TF attention 

heads {2, 4, 8} Number of TF attention heads. Used by TF readout 

only. 8

TF expansion {2, 4, 8} Projection of TF attention heads. Used by TF 

readout only. 4

Table S16. Evaluation metrics available in ElemeNet. All evaluation metrics are supported for 

all scopes (i.e., node, edge, graph, and subgraph) .

metric supported 

tasks 

theoretical 

bounds description 

MAE regression [0, ∞) Mean absolute error 

MSE regression [0, ∞) Mean squared error 

RMSE regression [0, ∞) Root mean squared error 

accuracy classification [0, 1] Overall rate of correct predictions. 

May be weighted by class frequency. 

precision classification [0, 1] Rate of correct positive predictions over all positive predictions. 

May be weighted by class frequency. 

recall classification [0, 1] 

Rate of correct positive predictions over true positive and false 

negative predictions. 

May be weighted by class frequency. 

F1 classification [0, 1] Harmonic mean of precision and recall. May be weighted by class 

frequency. 

ROC -AUC classification [0, 1] 

Receiver operating characteristic area under curve. Measures ability to 

distinguish between classes .

Averaged across classes for multiclass datasets. Page S 23 

Table S 17. Uncertainty metrics available in ElemeNet . Latent space distances and cosine 

similarity are only supported for graph -level targets , as saving node and edge -level latent space 

embeddings is computationally intractable (i.e., results in massive 𝑁 × 𝐻 matrices , for 𝑁 nodes 

or edges and 𝐻 hidden dimension ). Confidence and entropy metrics are only defined for 

classification tasks. Only ensemble standard deviations are defined for all tasks (i.e., regression 

and classificatio n) and scopes (i.e., node, edge, graph, and subgraph) .

metric supported 

tasks 

supported 

scopes 

theoretical 

bounds description 

latent space 

distance 

regression, 

classification graph [0, ∞) Latent space distance to closest 𝑁 

data point s in training set. 

cosine 

similarity 

regression, 

classification graph [-1, 1] 

Cosine of a ngle formed by the 

vectors pointing from the origin to 

the test point and closest point in 

training data .

confidence classification node, edge, 

graph, subgraph 

binary: [0, 1]

K-class: [0, 1/K] 

Minimum distance of a prediction 

from 0 or 1. 

normalized 

confidence classification node, edge, 

graph, subgraph [0, 1] 

Minimum distance of a prediction 

from 0 or 1, normalized for number 

of classes. 

entropy classification node, edge, 

graph, subgraph [0, log(K) )

Shannon entropy , defined as 

expected value of information 

content. 

normalized 

entropy classification node, edge, 

graph, subgraph [0, 1) 

Shannon entropy, defined as 

expected value of information 

content, normalized for number of 

classes. 

ensemble 

standard deviation 

regression, 

classification 

node, edge, 

graph, subgraph [0, ∞) Standard deviation of predictions 

across ensemble heads. 

Table S 18 . Results of 3D GNN models reported in original tmQMg work. All values are directly 

taken as reported in Kneiding et al. 9 Models requiring quantum mechanical calculations as inputs 

(i.e., "NatQG") are not considered. 

tmQMg baseline 

architecture 

HOMO -LUMO gap 

(hartree) 

dipole 

(debye) 

polarizability 

(bohr 3)

MXMNet 9.36 ×10 -3 0.943 4.83 

SchNet 0.0126 1.45 6.81 

EdgeUpdate 0.0102 1.13 5.67 

DimeNet++ 0.0103 1.28 5.37 

ALIGNN 7.72 ×10 -3 0.705 5.43 

average 0.0100 1.10 5.62 Page S 24 

Text S 6. Procedure used to calculate atomization energies for the GEMS dataset. 

To compute atomization energies, we performed s ingle -point energy calculations on all 

unique atom types (i.e., H, C, N, O, S) and charges (i.e., -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3) in the GEMS 

dataset. 13 For each atom type and charge combination, the first five accessible spin states were 

considered. For example, O (charge -1) was modeled as a doublet, quartet, sextet, octet, and 

decet, while N (charge 3) was only considered in the singlet, triplet, and quintet states. These 

results were used to determine the ground state spin for each combination of atom and charge. 

For a given structure with reported electronic energy, the difference in electronic energy and 

single -atom energies was used to calculate atomization energy. Charged species were handled 

using the procedure outlined in Garrison et al., with the net charge being satisfied by adding or 

removing electrons from the atoms with the smallest difference in energy upon 

addition/removal .14 As atomization energy is an extensive property which scales with size, we 

normalize all properties by molecular mass to yield a relative atomization energy with units of 

eV/(mol g). All calculations used the PBE0 functional 15 and def2 -TZVPP basis set 16,17 for 

consistency with the reported GEMS electronic energies. 13 All calculations utilized Psi4 version 

1.9.1. 18 All atom energies may be found in the Zenodo repository. 12 

Table S 19 . Charge -spin encoding ablation study. Test set of GEMS dataset is filtered to contain 

only charged species. Charge is either defined explicitly (i.e., explicit charge True) or 

intentionally mislabeled as neutral (i.e., explicit charge False). Inference is performed on each set 

using existing trained models .                            

> encoder readout ensemble
> size explicit charge electronic energy (eV)
> dipole
> (debye)
> relative
> atomization
> energy
> (eV/mol g)
> EGNN TF 1True 0.12 70.155 3.82×10 -3
> EGNN TF 1False 3.057 0.15 80.29 7
> EGNN TF 16 True 0.09 60.150 3.92×10 -3
> EGNN TF 16 False 0.62 90.151 2.92×10 -2

Page S 25 

References 

(1) Winter, M. Webelements: The Periodic Table on the WWW . 1993. 

https://www.webelements.com . (Accessed October 5). 

(2) Alvarez, S. A Cartography of the van der Waals Territories. Dalton Trans 2013, 42 ,

8617 -36. 

(3) Schwerdtfeger, P.; Nagle, J. K. 2018 Table of Static Dipole Polarizabilities of the Neutral 

Elements in the Periodic Table. Molecular Physics 2018, 117 , 1200 -1225. 

(4) Kramida, A.; Ralchenko, Y.; Reader, J.; Team, N. A. NIST Atomic Spectra Database. 

2024. https://physics.nist.gov/asd . (Accessed October 5). 

(5) Gray, T.; Whitby, M.; Mann, N. Periodic Table. https://periodictable.com/ . (Accessed 

October 5). 

(6) Mentel, L. M., 2015. 

(7) Bannwarth, C.; Ehlert, S.; Grimme, S. G FN 2-xTB -an Accurate and Broadly Parametrized 

Self -Consistent Tight -Binding Quantum Chemical Method with Multipole Electrostatics 

and Density -Dependent Dispersion Contributions. J Chem Theory Comput 2019, 15 ,

1652 -1671. 

(8) Heid, E.; Greenman, K. P.; Chung, Y.; Li, S. C.; Graff, D. E.; Vermeire, F. H.; Wu, H.; 

Green, W. H.; McGill, C. J. Chemprop: A Machine Learning Package for Chemical 

Property Prediction. J Chem Inf Model 2024, 64 , 9 -17. 

(9) Kneiding, H.; Lukin, R.; Lang, L.; Reine, S.; Pedersen, T. B.; De Bin, R.; Balcells, D. 

Deep Learning Metal Complex Properties with Natural Quantum Graphs. Digital 

Discovery 2023, 2, 618 -633. 

(10) Toney, J. W.; St Michel, R. G.; Garrison, A. G.; Kevlishvili, I.; Kulik, H. J. Graph Neural 

Networks for Predicting Metal -Ligand Coordination of Transition Metal Complexes. 

Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2025, 122 , e2415658122. 

(11) RDKit, 2025, DOI:10.5281/zenodo.16439048 10.5281/zenodo.16439048. 

(12) Toney, J. W.; Darouich, S.; Wang, Y.; Garrison, A. G.; Kästner, J.; Kulik, H. J. Zenodo 

Dataset for “Eleme Net : Multiscale Molecular Machine Learning with Uncertainty 

Quantification across the Periodic Table”. 2026. 

https://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.20653096 . (Accessed June 12). 

(13) Unke, O. T.; Stöhr, M.; Ganscha, S.; Unterthiner, T.; Maennel, H.; Kashubin, S.; Ahlin, 

D.; Gastegger, M.; Sandonas, L. M.; Berryman, J. T.; Tkatchenko, A.; Müller, K. -R. 

Biomolecular Dynamics with Machine -Learned Quantum -Mechanical Force Fields 

Trained on Diverse Chemical Fragments. Sci Adv 2024, 10 .

(14) Garrison, A. G.; Toney, J. W.; Nikolaeva, T.; Michel, R. G. S.; Stein, C. J.; Kulik, H. J. 

The BOS -TMC Dataset: DFT Properties of 159k Experimentally Characterized 

Transition Metal Complexes Spanning Multiple Charge and Spin States. arXiv 2026 ,

DOI:10.48550/arXiv.2604.07623 10.48550/arXiv.2604.07623. 

(15) Adamo, C.; Barone, V. Toward Reliable Density Functional Methods without Adjustable 

Parameters: The P BE 0 Model. J Chem Phys 1999, 110 , 6158 -6170. 

(16) Weigend, F.; Ahlrichs, R. Balanced Basis Sets of Split Valence, Triple Zeta Valence and 

Quadruple Zeta Valence Quality for H to Rn: Design and Assessment of Accuracy. Phys 

Chem Chem Phys 2005, 7, 3297 -3305. 

(17) Weigend, F. Accurate Coulomb -Fitting Basis Sets for H to Rn. Phys Chem Chem Phys 

2006, 8, 1057 -1065. Page S 26 

(18) Smith, D. G. A.; Burns, L. A.; Simmonett, A. C.; Parrish, R. M.; Schieber, M. C.; 

Galvelis, R.; Kraus, P.; Kruse, H.; Remigio, R. D.; Alenaizan, A.; James, A. M.; Lehtola, 

S.; Misiewicz, J. P.; Scheurer, M.; Shaw, R. A.; Schriber, J. B.; Xie, Y.; Glick, Z. L.; 

Sirianni, D. A.; O’Brien, J. S.; Waldrop, J. M.; Kumar, A.; Hohenstein, E. G.; Pritchard, 

B. P.; Brooks, B. R.; Henry F. Schaefer, I.; Sokolov, A. Y.; Patkowski, K.; A. Eugene 

DePrince, I.; Bozkaya, U.; King, R. A.; Evangelista, F. A.; Turney, J. M.; Crawford, T. 

D.; Sherrill, C. D. Psi4 1.4: Open -Source Software for High -Throughput Quantum 

Chemistry. J Chem Phys 2020, 152 .